website/src/pages/downloads.md, before:

<!--
 Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
 or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
 distributed with this work for additional information
 regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
 to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
 "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
 with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

 Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
 distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
 WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
 See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
 limitations under the License.
-->

# Fluss Downloads

## Fluss 0.7.0

#### Fluss

- [Fluss 0.7.0 Binary Release](https://github.com/alibaba/fluss/releases/download/v0.7.0/fluss-0.7.0-bin.tgz) ([asc](https://github.com/alibaba/fluss/releases/download/v0.7.0/fluss-0.7.0-bin.tgz.asc), [sha512](https://github.com/alibaba/fluss/releases/download/v0.7.0/fluss-0.7.0-bin.tgz.sha512))
- [Fluss 0.7.0 Source Release](https://github.com/alibaba/fluss/releases/download/v0.7.0/fluss-0.7.0-src.tgz) ([asc](https://github.com/alibaba/fluss/releases/download/v0.7.0/fluss-0.7.0-src.tgz.asc), [sha512](https://github.com/alibaba/fluss/releases/download/v0.7.0/fluss-0.7.0-src.tgz.sha512))

#### Flink Connector
| Flink Version | Download Link | Signature & Checksum |
|---------------|---------------|----------------------|
| Flink 1.20 | [fluss-flink-1.20-0.7.0.jar](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/alibaba/fluss/fluss-flink-1.20/0.7.0/fluss-flink-1.20-0.7.0.jar) | [asc](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/alibaba/fluss/fluss-flink-1.20/0.7.0/fluss-flink-1.20-0.7.0.jar.asc), [sha](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/alibaba/fluss/fluss-flink-1.20/0.7.0/fluss-flink-1.20-0.7.0.jar.sha1) |
| Flink 1.19 | [fluss-flink-1.19-0.7.0.jar](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/alibaba/fluss/fluss-flink-1.19/0.7.0/fluss-flink-1.19-0.7.0.jar) | [asc](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/alibaba/fluss/fluss-flink-1.19/0.7.0/fluss-flink-1.19-0.7.0.jar.asc), [sha](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/alibaba/fluss/fluss-flink-1.19/0.7.0/fluss-flink-1.19-0.7.0.jar.sha1) |
| Flink 1.18 | [fluss-flink-1.18-0.7.0.jar](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/alibaba/fluss/fluss-flink-1.18/0.7.0/fluss-flink-1.18-0.7.0.jar) | [asc](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/alibaba/fluss/fluss-flink-1.18/0.7.0/fluss-flink-1.18-0.7.0.jar.asc), [sha](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/alibaba/fluss/fluss-flink-1.18/0.7.0/fluss-flink-1.18-0.7.0.jar.sha1) |



#### Filesystem Jars

- [fluss-fs-s3-0.7.0.jar](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/alibaba/fluss/fluss-fs-s3/0.7.0/fluss-fs-s3-0.7.0.jar) ([asc](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/alibaba/fluss/fluss-fs-s3/0.7.0/fluss-fs-s3-0.7.0.jar.asc), [sha](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/alibaba/fluss/fluss-fs-s3/0.7.0/fluss-fs-s3-0.7.0.jar.sha1))
- [fluss-fs-oss-0.7.0.jar](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/alibaba/fluss/fluss-fs-oss/0.7.0/fluss-fs-oss-0.7.0.jar) ([asc](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/alibaba/fluss/fluss-fs-oss/0.7.0/fluss-fs-oss-0.7.0.jar.asc), [sha](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/alibaba/fluss/fluss-fs-oss/0.7.0/fluss-fs-oss-0.7.0.jar.sha1))
- [fluss-fs-hadoop-0.7.0.jar](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/alibaba/fluss/fluss-fs-hadoop/0.7.0/fluss-fs-hadoop-0.7.0.jar) ([asc](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/alibaba/fluss/fluss-fs-hadoop/0.7.0/fluss-fs-hadoop-0.7.0.jar.asc), [sha](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/alibaba/fluss/fluss-fs-hadoop/0.7.0/fluss-fs-hadoop-0.7.0.jar.sha1))

#### Flink Tier Service Jar

- [fluss-flink-tiering-0.7.0.jar](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/alibaba/fluss/fluss-flink-tiering/0.7.0/fluss-flink-tiering-0.7.0.jar) ([asc](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/alibaba/fluss/fluss-flink-tiering/0.7.0/fluss-flink-tiering-0.7.0.jar.asc), [sha](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/alibaba/fluss/fluss-flink-tiering/0.7.0/fluss-flink-tiering-0.7.0.jar.sha1))

## Fluss 0.6.1

#### Fluss

- [Fluss 0.6.1 Binary Release](https://github.com/alibaba/fluss/releases/download/v0.6.1/fluss-0.6.1-bin.tgz) ([asc](https://github.com/alibaba/fluss/releases/download/v0.6.1/fluss-0.6.1-bin.tgz.asc), [sha512](https://github.com/alibaba/fluss/releases/download/v0.6.1/fluss-0.6.1-bin.tgz.sha512))
- [Fluss 0.6.1 Source Release](https://github.com/alibaba/fluss/releases/download/v0.6.1/fluss-0.6.1-src.tgz) ([asc](https://github.com/alibaba/fluss/releases/download/v0.6.1/fluss-0.6.1-src.tgz.asc), [sha512](https://github.com/alibaba/fluss/releases/download/v0.6.1/fluss-0.6.1-src.tgz.sha512))

#### Flink Connector
- [fluss-connector-flink-0.6.1.jar](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/alibaba/fluss/fluss-connector-flink/0.6.1/fluss-connector-flink-0.6.1.jar) ([asc](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/alibaba/fluss/fluss-connector-flink/0.6.1/fluss-connector-flink-0.6.1.jar.asc), [sha](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/alibaba/fluss/fluss-connector-flink/0.6.1/fluss-connector-flink-0.6.1.jar.sha1))

#### Filesystem Jars

- [fluss-fs-s3-0.6.1.jar](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/alibaba/fluss/fluss-fs-s3/0.6.1/fluss-fs-s3-0.6.1.jar) ([asc](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/alibaba/fluss/fluss-fs-s3/0.6.1/fluss-fs-s3-0.6.1.jar.asc), [sha](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/alibaba/fluss/fluss-fs-s3/0.6.1/fluss-fs-s3-0.6.1.jar.sha1))
- [fluss-fs-oss-0.6.1.jar](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/alibaba/fluss/fluss-fs-oss/0.6.1/fluss-fs-oss-0.6.1.jar) ([asc](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/alibaba/fluss/fluss-fs-oss/0.6.1/fluss-fs-oss-0.6.1.jar.asc), [sha](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/alibaba/fluss/fluss-fs-oss/0.6.1/fluss-fs-oss-0.6.1.jar.sha1))
- [fluss-fs-hadoop-0.6.1.jar](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/alibaba/fluss/fluss-fs-hadoop/0.6.1/fluss-fs-hadoop-0.6.1.jar) ([asc](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/alibaba/fluss/fluss-fs-hadoop/0.6.1/fluss-fs-hadoop-0.6.1.jar.asc), [sha](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/alibaba/fluss/fluss-fs-hadoop/0.6.1/fluss-fs-hadoop-0.6.1.jar.sha1))

## Fluss 0.5.0

#### Fluss

- [Fluss 0.5.0 Binary Release](https://github.com/alibaba/fluss/releases/download/v0.5.0/fluss-0.5.0-bin.tgz) ([asc](https://github.com/alibaba/fluss/releases/download/v0.5.0/fluss-0.5.0-bin.tgz.asc), [sha512](https://github.com/alibaba/fluss/releases/download/v0.5.0/fluss-0.5.0-bin.tgz.sha512))
- [Fluss 0.5.0 Source Release](https://github.com/alibaba/fluss/releases/download/v0.5.0/fluss-0.5.0-src.tgz) ([asc](https://github.com/alibaba/fluss/releases/download/v0.5.0/fluss-0.5.0-src.tgz.asc), [sha512](https://github.com/alibaba/fluss/releases/download/v0.5.0/fluss-0.5.0-src.tgz.sha512))

#### Flink Connector
- [fluss-connector-flink-0.5.0.jar](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/alibaba/fluss/fluss-connector-flink/0.5.0/fluss-connector-flink-0.5.0.jar) ([asc](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/alibaba/fluss/fluss-connector-flink/0.5.0/fluss-connector-flink-0.5.0.jar.asc), [sha](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/alibaba/fluss/fluss-connector-flink/0.5.0/fluss-connector-flink-0.5.0.jar.sha1))

#### Filesystem Jars

- [fluss-fs-s3-0.5.0.jar](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/alibaba/fluss/fluss-fs-s3/0.5.0/fluss-fs-s3-0.5.0.jar) ([asc](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/alibaba/fluss/fluss-fs-s3/0.5.0/fluss-fs-s3-0.5.0.jar.asc), [sha](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/alibaba/fluss/fluss-fs-s3/0.5.0/fluss-fs-s3-0.5.0.jar.sha1))
- [fluss-fs-oss-0.5.0.jar](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/alibaba/fluss/fluss-fs-oss/0.5.0/fluss-fs-oss-0.5.0.jar) ([asc](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/alibaba/fluss/fluss-fs-oss/0.5.0/fluss-fs-oss-0.5.0.jar.asc), [sha](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/alibaba/fluss/fluss-fs-oss/0.5.0/fluss-fs-oss-0.5.0.jar.sha1))
- [fluss-fs-hadoop-0.5.0.jar](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/alibaba/fluss/fluss-fs-hadoop/0.5.0/fluss-fs-hadoop-0.5.0.jar) ([asc](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/alibaba/fluss/fluss-fs-hadoop/0.5.0/fluss-fs-hadoop-0.5.0.jar.asc), [sha](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/alibaba/fluss/fluss-fs-hadoop/0.5.0/fluss-fs-hadoop-0.5.0.jar.sha1))

Commit message:

[website] Update Website According to ASF Requirements (#1251)
* [website] Add links to ASF in menu bar

Comply with https://www.apache.org/foundation/marks/pmcs#navigation

* [website] Update landing page header and footer

* [website] Update download page

* [website] Update landing page

* [website] Make download page consistent

* [website] Add incubator logo

* Use (TM) symbol in header only

* Move ASF dropdown to the right

website/src/pages/downloads.md, after:

<!--
 Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
 or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
 distributed with this work for additional information
 regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
 to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
 "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
 with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

 Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
 distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
 WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
 See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
 limitations under the License.
-->

# Apache Fluss (Incubating) Downloads

> Apache Fluss (Incubating) is a streaming storage built for real-time analytics which can serve as the real-time data layer for Lakehouse architectures. 

**Note:** We are currently preparing for the first release under the Apache Incubator. Previous releases were non-Apache releases.

## Previous Releases (Non-Apache)

### Fluss 0.7.0

#### Fluss

- [Fluss 0.7.0 Binary Release](https://github.com/alibaba/fluss/releases/download/v0.7.0/fluss-0.7.0-bin.tgz) ([asc](https://github.com/alibaba/fluss/releases/download/v0.7.0/fluss-0.7.0-bin.tgz.asc), [sha512](https://github.com/alibaba/fluss/releases/download/v0.7.0/fluss-0.7.0-bin.tgz.sha512))
- [Fluss 0.7.0 Source Release](https://github.com/alibaba/fluss/releases/download/v0.7.0/fluss-0.7.0-src.tgz) ([asc](https://github.com/alibaba/fluss/releases/download/v0.7.0/fluss-0.7.0-src.tgz.asc), [sha512](https://github.com/alibaba/fluss/releases/download/v0.7.0/fluss-0.7.0-src.tgz.sha512))

#### Flink Connector
| Flink Version | Download Link | Signature & Checksum |
|---------------|---------------|----------------------|
| Flink 1.20 | [fluss-flink-1.20-0.7.0.jar](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/alibaba/fluss/fluss-flink-1.20/0.7.0/fluss-flink-1.20-0.7.0.jar) | [asc](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/alibaba/fluss/fluss-flink-1.20/0.7.0/fluss-flink-1.20-0.7.0.jar.asc), [sha](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/alibaba/fluss/fluss-flink-1.20/0.7.0/fluss-flink-1.20-0.7.0.jar.sha1) |
| Flink 1.19 | [fluss-flink-1.19-0.7.0.jar](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/alibaba/fluss/fluss-flink-1.19/0.7.0/fluss-flink-1.19-0.7.0.jar) | [asc](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/alibaba/fluss/fluss-flink-1.19/0.7.0/fluss-flink-1.19-0.7.0.jar.asc), [sha](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/alibaba/fluss/fluss-flink-1.19/0.7.0/fluss-flink-1.19-0.7.0.jar.sha1) |
| Flink 1.18 | [fluss-flink-1.18-0.7.0.jar](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/alibaba/fluss/fluss-flink-1.18/0.7.0/fluss-flink-1.18-0.7.0.jar) | [asc](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/alibaba/fluss/fluss-flink-1.18/0.7.0/fluss-flink-1.18-0.7.0.jar.asc), [sha](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/alibaba/fluss/fluss-flink-1.18/0.7.0/fluss-flink-1.18-0.7.0.jar.sha1) |



#### Filesystem Jars

- [fluss-fs-s3-0.7.0.jar](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/alibaba/fluss/fluss-fs-s3/0.7.0/fluss-fs-s3-0.7.0.jar) ([asc](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/alibaba/fluss/fluss-fs-s3/0.7.0/fluss-fs-s3-0.7.0.jar.asc), [sha](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/alibaba/fluss/fluss-fs-s3/0.7.0/fluss-fs-s3-0.7.0.jar.sha1))
- [fluss-fs-oss-0.7.0.jar](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/alibaba/fluss/fluss-fs-oss/0.7.0/fluss-fs-oss-0.7.0.jar) ([asc](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/alibaba/fluss/fluss-fs-oss/0.7.0/fluss-fs-oss-0.7.0.jar.asc), [sha](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/alibaba/fluss/fluss-fs-oss/0.7.0/fluss-fs-oss-0.7.0.jar.sha1))
- [fluss-fs-hadoop-0.7.0.jar](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/alibaba/fluss/fluss-fs-hadoop/0.7.0/fluss-fs-hadoop-0.7.0.jar) ([asc](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/alibaba/fluss/fluss-fs-hadoop/0.7.0/fluss-fs-hadoop-0.7.0.jar.asc), [sha](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/alibaba/fluss/fluss-fs-hadoop/0.7.0/fluss-fs-hadoop-0.7.0.jar.sha1))

#### Flink Tier Service Jar

- [fluss-flink-tiering-0.7.0.jar](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/alibaba/fluss/fluss-flink-tiering/0.7.0/fluss-flink-tiering-0.7.0.jar) ([asc](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/alibaba/fluss/fluss-flink-tiering/0.7.0/fluss-flink-tiering-0.7.0.jar.asc), [sha](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/alibaba/fluss/fluss-flink-tiering/0.7.0/fluss-flink-tiering-0.7.0.jar.sha1))

### Fluss 0.6.1

#### Fluss

- [Fluss 0.6.1 Binary Release](https://github.com/alibaba/fluss/releases/download/v0.6.1/fluss-0.6.1-bin.tgz) ([asc](https://github.com/alibaba/fluss/releases/download/v0.6.1/fluss-0.6.1-bin.tgz.asc), [sha512](https://github.com/alibaba/fluss/releases/download/v0.6.1/fluss-0.6.1-bin.tgz.sha512))
- [Fluss 0.6.1 Source Release](https://github.com/alibaba/fluss/releases/download/v0.6.1/fluss-0.6.1-src.tgz) ([asc](https://github.com/alibaba/fluss/releases/download/v0.6.1/fluss-0.6.1-src.tgz.asc), [sha512](https://github.com/alibaba/fluss/releases/download/v0.6.1/fluss-0.6.1-src.tgz.sha512))

#### Flink Connector
- [fluss-connector-flink-0.6.1.jar](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/alibaba/fluss/fluss-connector-flink/0.6.1/fluss-connector-flink-0.6.1.jar) ([asc](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/alibaba/fluss/fluss-connector-flink/0.6.1/fluss-connector-flink-0.6.1.jar.asc), [sha](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/alibaba/fluss/fluss-connector-flink/0.6.1/fluss-connector-flink-0.6.1.jar.sha1))

#### Filesystem Jars

- [fluss-fs-s3-0.6.1.jar](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/alibaba/fluss/fluss-fs-s3/0.6.1/fluss-fs-s3-0.6.1.jar) ([asc](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/alibaba/fluss/fluss-fs-s3/0.6.1/fluss-fs-s3-0.6.1.jar.asc), [sha](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/alibaba/fluss/fluss-fs-s3/0.6.1/fluss-fs-s3-0.6.1.jar.sha1))
- [fluss-fs-oss-0.6.1.jar](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/alibaba/fluss/fluss-fs-oss/0.6.1/fluss-fs-oss-0.6.1.jar) ([asc](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/alibaba/fluss/fluss-fs-oss/0.6.1/fluss-fs-oss-0.6.1.jar.asc), [sha](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/alibaba/fluss/fluss-fs-oss/0.6.1/fluss-fs-oss-0.6.1.jar.sha1))
- [fluss-fs-hadoop-0.6.1.jar](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/alibaba/fluss/fluss-fs-hadoop/0.6.1/fluss-fs-hadoop-0.6.1.jar) ([asc](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/alibaba/fluss/fluss-fs-hadoop/0.6.1/fluss-fs-hadoop-0.6.1.jar.asc), [sha](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/alibaba/fluss/fluss-fs-hadoop/0.6.1/fluss-fs-hadoop-0.6.1.jar.sha1))

### Fluss 0.5.0

#### Fluss

- [Fluss 0.5.0 Binary Release](https://github.com/alibaba/fluss/releases/download/v0.5.0/fluss-0.5.0-bin.tgz) ([asc](https://github.com/alibaba/fluss/releases/download/v0.5.0/fluss-0.5.0-bin.tgz.asc), [sha512](https://github.com/alibaba/fluss/releases/download/v0.5.0/fluss-0.5.0-bin.tgz.sha512))
- [Fluss 0.5.0 Source Release](https://github.com/alibaba/fluss/releases/download/v0.5.0/fluss-0.5.0-src.tgz) ([asc](https://github.com/alibaba/fluss/releases/download/v0.5.0/fluss-0.5.0-src.tgz.asc), [sha512](https://github.com/alibaba/fluss/releases/download/v0.5.0/fluss-0.5.0-src.tgz.sha512))

#### Flink Connector
- [fluss-connector-flink-0.5.0.jar](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/alibaba/fluss/fluss-connector-flink/0.5.0/fluss-connector-flink-0.5.0.jar) ([asc](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/alibaba/fluss/fluss-connector-flink/0.5.0/fluss-connector-flink-0.5.0.jar.asc), [sha](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/alibaba/fluss/fluss-connector-flink/0.5.0/fluss-connector-flink-0.5.0.jar.sha1))

#### Filesystem Jars

- [fluss-fs-s3-0.5.0.jar](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/alibaba/fluss/fluss-fs-s3/0.5.0/fluss-fs-s3-0.5.0.jar) ([asc](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/alibaba/fluss/fluss-fs-s3/0.5.0/fluss-fs-s3-0.5.0.jar.asc), [sha](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/alibaba/fluss/fluss-fs-s3/0.5.0/fluss-fs-s3-0.5.0.jar.sha1))
- [fluss-fs-oss-0.5.0.jar](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/alibaba/fluss/fluss-fs-oss/0.5.0/fluss-fs-oss-0.5.0.jar) ([asc](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/alibaba/fluss/fluss-fs-oss/0.5.0/fluss-fs-oss-0.5.0.jar.asc), [sha](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/alibaba/fluss/fluss-fs-oss/0.5.0/fluss-fs-oss-0.5.0.jar.sha1))
- [fluss-fs-hadoop-0.5.0.jar](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/alibaba/fluss/fluss-fs-hadoop/0.5.0/fluss-fs-hadoop-0.5.0.jar) ([asc](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/alibaba/fluss/fluss-fs-hadoop/0.5.0/fluss-fs-hadoop-0.5.0.jar.asc), [sha](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/alibaba/fluss/fluss-fs-hadoop/0.5.0/fluss-fs-hadoop-0.5.0.jar.sha1))
