website/docs/apis/java-client.md, before:

---
title: "Java Client"
sidebar_position: 1
---

<!--
 Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
 or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
 distributed with this work for additional information
 regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
 to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
 "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
 with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

 Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
 distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
 WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
 See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
 limitations under the License.
-->

# Fluss Java Client
## Overview
Fluss `Admin` API that supports asynchronous operations for managing and inspecting Fluss resources. It communicates with the Fluss cluster and provides methods for:

* Managing databases (create, drop, list)
* Managing tables (create, drop, list)
* Managing partitions (create, drop, list)
* Retrieving metadata (schemas, snapshots, server information)

Fluss `Table` API allows you to interact with Fluss tables for reading and writing data.
## Dependency
In order to use the client, you need to add the following dependency to your `pom.xml` file.

```xml
<!-- https://mvnrepository.com/artifact/com.alibaba.fluss/fluss-client -->
<dependency>
    <groupId>com.alibaba.fluss</groupId>
    <artifactId>fluss-client</artifactId>
    <version>$FLUSS_VERSION$</version>
</dependency>
```

## Initialization

`Connection` is the main entry point for the Fluss Java client. It is used to create `Admin` and `Table` instances.
The `Connection` object is created using the `ConnectionFactory` class, which takes a `Configuration` object as an argument.
The `Configuration` object contains the necessary configuration parameters for connecting to the Fluss cluster, such as the bootstrap servers.

The `Connection` object is thread-safe and can be shared across multiple threads. It is recommended to create a
single `Connection` instance per application and use it to create multiple `Admin` and `Table` instances.
`Table` and `Admin` instances, on the other hand, are not thread-safe and should be created for each thread that needs to access them.
 Caching or pooling of `Table` and `Admin` is not recommended.

Create a new `Admin` instance :
```java
// creating Connection object to connect with Fluss cluster
Configuration conf = new Configuration(); 
conf.setString("bootstrap.servers", "localhost:9123");
Connection connection = ConnectionFactory.createConnection(conf);


// obtain Admin instance from the Connection
Admin admin = connection.getAdmin();
admin.listDatabases().get().forEach(System.out::println);

// obtain Table instance from the Connection
Table table = connection.getTable(TablePath.of("my_db", "my_table"));
System.out.println(table.getTableInfo());
```

if you are using SASL authentication, you need to set the following properties:
```java
// creating Connection object to connect with Fluss cluster
Configuration conf = new Configuration(); 
conf.setString("bootstrap.servers", "localhost:9123");
conf.setString("client.security.protocol", "sasl");
conf.setString("client.security.sasl.mechanism", "PLAIN");
conf.setString("client.security.sasl.username", "alice");
conf.setString("client.security.sasl.password", "alice-secret");
Connection connection = ConnectionFactory.createConnection(conf);


// obtain Admin instance from the Connection
Admin admin = connection.getAdmin();
admin.listDatabases().get().forEach(System.out::println);

// obtain Table instance from the Connection
Table table = connection.getTable(TablePath.of("my_db", "my_table"));
System.out.println(table.getTableInfo());
```



## Working Operations
All methods in `FlussAdmin` return `CompletableFuture` objects. You can handle these in two ways:

### Blocking Operations
For synchronous behavior, use the `get()` method:
```java
// Blocking call
List<String> databases = admin.listDatabases().get();
```

### Asynchronous Operations
For non-blocking behavior, use the `thenAccept`, `thenApply`, or other methods:
```java
admin.listDatabases()
    .thenAccept(databases -> {
        System.out.println("Available databases:");
        databases.forEach(System.out::println);
    })
    .exceptionally(ex -> {
        System.err.println("Failed to list databases: " + ex.getMessage());
        return null;
    });
```

## Creating Databases and Tables
### Creating a Database
```java

// Create database descriptor
DatabaseDescriptor descriptor = DatabaseDescriptor.builder()
    .comment("This is a test database")
    .customProperty("owner", "data-team")
    .build();

// Create database (true means ignore if exists)
admin.createDatabase("my_db", descriptor, true) // non-blocking call
    .thenAccept(unused -> System.out.println("Database created successfully"))
    .exceptionally(ex -> {
        System.err.println("Failed to create database: " + ex.getMessage());
        return null;
    });
```


### Creating a Table
```java
Schema schema = Schema.newBuilder()
        .column("id", DataTypes.STRING())
        .column("age", DataTypes.INT())
        .column("created_at", DataTypes.TIMESTAMP())
        .column("is_active", DataTypes.BOOLEAN())
        .primaryKey("id")
        .build();

// Use the schema in a table descriptor
TableDescriptor tableDescriptor = TableDescriptor.builder()
        .schema(schema)
        .distributedBy(1, "id")  // Distribute by the id column with 1 buckets
//        .partitionedBy("")     // Partition by the partition key
        .build();

TablePath tablePath = TablePath.of("my_db", "user_table");
admin.createTable(tablePath, tableDescriptor, false).get(); // blocking call

TableInfo tableInfo = admin.getTableInfo(tablePath).get(); // blocking call
System.out.println(tableInfo);
```

## Table API
### Writers
In order to write data to Fluss tables, first you need to create a Table instance.
```java
TablePath tablePath = TablePath.of("my_db", "user_table");
Table table = connection.getTable(tablePath);
```

In Fluss we have both Primary Key Tables and Log Tables, so the client provides different functionality depending on the table type.
You can use an `UpsertWriter` to write data to a Primary Key table, and an `AppendWriter` to write data to a Log Table.
````java
table.newUpsert().createWriter();
table.newAppend().createWriter();
````

Let's take a look at how to write data to a Primary Key table.
```java
List<User> users = List.of(
        new User("1", 20, LocalDateTime.now() , true),
        new User("2", 22, LocalDateTime.now() , true),
        new User("3", 23, LocalDateTime.now() , true),
        new User("4", 24, LocalDateTime.now() , true),
        new User("5", 25, LocalDateTime.now() , true)
);
```

**Note:** Currently data in Fluss is written in the form of `rows`, so we need to convert our POJO to `GenericRow`, while the Fluss community is working to provide
a more user-friendly API for writing data.
```java
Table table = connection.getTable(tablePath);

List<GenericRow> rows = users.stream().map(user -> {
    GenericRow row = new GenericRow(4);
    row.setField(0, BinaryString.fromString(user.getId()));
    row.setField(1, user.getAge());
    row.setField(2, TimestampNtz.fromLocalDateTime(user.getCreatedAt()));
    row.setField(3, user.isActive());
    return row;
}).collect(Collectors.toList());
        
System.out.println("Upserting rows to the table");
UpsertWriter writer = table.newUpsert().createWriter();

// upsert() is a non-blocking call that sends data to Fluss server with batching and timeout
rows.forEach(writer::upsert);

// call flush() to blocking the thread until all data is written successfully
writer.flush();
```

For a Log table you can use the `AppendWriter` API to write data.
```java
table.newAppend().createWriter().append(row);
```

### Scanner
In order to read data from Fluss tables, first you need to create a Scanner instance. Then users can subscribe to the table buckets and 
start polling for records.
```java
LogScanner logScanner = table.newScan()
        .createLogScanner();

int numBuckets = table.getTableInfo().getNumBuckets();
System.out.println("Number of buckets: " + numBuckets);
for (int i = 0; i < numBuckets; i++) {     
    System.out.println("Subscribing to bucket " + i);
    logScanner.subscribeFromBeginning(i);
}

long scanned = 0;
Map<Integer, List<String>> rowsMap = new HashMap<>();

while (true) {     
    System.out.println("Polling for records...");
    ScanRecords scanRecords = logScanner.poll(Duration.ofSeconds(1));
    for (TableBucket bucket : scanRecords.buckets()) {
        for (ScanRecord record : scanRecords.records(bucket)) {
            InternalRow row = record.getRow();
            // Process the row
            ...
        }
    }
    scanned += scanRecords.count();
}
```

### Lookup
You can also use the Fluss API to perform lookups on a table. This is useful for querying specific records based on their primary key.
```java
LookupResult lookup = table.newLookup().createLookuper().lookup(rowKey).get();
```

Commit message:

fix some docs of prefix lookup api (#1447)

website/docs/apis/java-client.md, after:

---
title: "Java Client"
sidebar_position: 1
---

<!--
 Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
 or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
 distributed with this work for additional information
 regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
 to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
 "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
 with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

 Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
 distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
 WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
 See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
 limitations under the License.
-->

# Fluss Java Client
## Overview
Fluss `Admin` API that supports asynchronous operations for managing and inspecting Fluss resources. It communicates with the Fluss cluster and provides methods for:

* Managing databases (create, drop, list)
* Managing tables (create, drop, list)
* Managing partitions (create, drop, list)
* Retrieving metadata (schemas, snapshots, server information)

Fluss `Table` API allows you to interact with Fluss tables for reading and writing data.
## Dependency
In order to use the client, you need to add the following dependency to your `pom.xml` file.

```xml
<!-- https://mvnrepository.com/artifact/com.alibaba.fluss/fluss-client -->
<dependency>
    <groupId>com.alibaba.fluss</groupId>
    <artifactId>fluss-client</artifactId>
    <version>$FLUSS_VERSION$</version>
</dependency>
```

## Initialization

`Connection` is the main entry point for the Fluss Java client. It is used to create `Admin` and `Table` instances.
The `Connection` object is created using the `ConnectionFactory` class, which takes a `Configuration` object as an argument.
The `Configuration` object contains the necessary configuration parameters for connecting to the Fluss cluster, such as the bootstrap servers.

The `Connection` object is thread-safe and can be shared across multiple threads. It is recommended to create a
single `Connection` instance per application and use it to create multiple `Admin` and `Table` instances.
`Table` and `Admin` instances, on the other hand, are not thread-safe and should be created for each thread that needs to access them.
 Caching or pooling of `Table` and `Admin` is not recommended.

Create a new `Admin` instance :
```java
// creating Connection object to connect with Fluss cluster
Configuration conf = new Configuration(); 
conf.setString("bootstrap.servers", "localhost:9123");
Connection connection = ConnectionFactory.createConnection(conf);


// obtain Admin instance from the Connection
Admin admin = connection.getAdmin();
admin.listDatabases().get().forEach(System.out::println);

// obtain Table instance from the Connection
Table table = connection.getTable(TablePath.of("my_db", "my_table"));
System.out.println(table.getTableInfo());
```

if you are using SASL authentication, you need to set the following properties:
```java
// creating Connection object to connect with Fluss cluster
Configuration conf = new Configuration(); 
conf.setString("bootstrap.servers", "localhost:9123");
conf.setString("client.security.protocol", "sasl");
conf.setString("client.security.sasl.mechanism", "PLAIN");
conf.setString("client.security.sasl.username", "alice");
conf.setString("client.security.sasl.password", "alice-secret");
Connection connection = ConnectionFactory.createConnection(conf);


// obtain Admin instance from the Connection
Admin admin = connection.getAdmin();
admin.listDatabases().get().forEach(System.out::println);

// obtain Table instance from the Connection
Table table = connection.getTable(TablePath.of("my_db", "my_table"));
System.out.println(table.getTableInfo());
```



## Working Operations
All methods in `FlussAdmin` return `CompletableFuture` objects. You can handle these in two ways:

### Blocking Operations
For synchronous behavior, use the `get()` method:
```java
// Blocking call
List<String> databases = admin.listDatabases().get();
```

### Asynchronous Operations
For non-blocking behavior, use the `thenAccept`, `thenApply`, or other methods:
```java
admin.listDatabases()
    .thenAccept(databases -> {
        System.out.println("Available databases:");
        databases.forEach(System.out::println);
    })
    .exceptionally(ex -> {
        System.err.println("Failed to list databases: " + ex.getMessage());
        return null;
    });
```

## Creating Databases and Tables
### Creating a Database
```java

// Create database descriptor
DatabaseDescriptor descriptor = DatabaseDescriptor.builder()
    .comment("This is a test database")
    .customProperty("owner", "data-team")
    .build();

// Create database (true means ignore if exists)
admin.createDatabase("my_db", descriptor, true) // non-blocking call
    .thenAccept(unused -> System.out.println("Database created successfully"))
    .exceptionally(ex -> {
        System.err.println("Failed to create database: " + ex.getMessage());
        return null;
    });
```


### Creating a Table
```java
Schema schema = Schema.newBuilder()
        .column("id", DataTypes.STRING())
        .column("age", DataTypes.INT())
        .column("created_at", DataTypes.TIMESTAMP())
        .column("is_active", DataTypes.BOOLEAN())
        .primaryKey("id")
        .build();

// Use the schema in a table descriptor
TableDescriptor tableDescriptor = TableDescriptor.builder()
        .schema(schema)
        .distributedBy(1, "id")  // Distribute by the id column with 1 buckets
//        .partitionedBy("")     // Partition by the partition key
        .build();

TablePath tablePath = TablePath.of("my_db", "user_table");
admin.createTable(tablePath, tableDescriptor, false).get(); // blocking call

TableInfo tableInfo = admin.getTableInfo(tablePath).get(); // blocking call
System.out.println(tableInfo);
```

## Table API
### Writers
In order to write data to Fluss tables, first you need to create a Table instance.
```java
TablePath tablePath = TablePath.of("my_db", "user_table");
Table table = connection.getTable(tablePath);
```

In Fluss we have both Primary Key Tables and Log Tables, so the client provides different functionality depending on the table type.
You can use an `UpsertWriter` to write data to a Primary Key table, and an `AppendWriter` to write data to a Log Table.
````java
table.newUpsert().createWriter();
table.newAppend().createWriter();
````

Let's take a look at how to write data to a Primary Key table.
```java
List<User> users = List.of(
        new User("1", 20, LocalDateTime.now() , true),
        new User("2", 22, LocalDateTime.now() , true),
        new User("3", 23, LocalDateTime.now() , true),
        new User("4", 24, LocalDateTime.now() , true),
        new User("5", 25, LocalDateTime.now() , true)
);
```

**Note:** Currently data in Fluss is written in the form of `rows`, so we need to convert our POJO to `GenericRow`, while the Fluss community is working to provide
a more user-friendly API for writing data.
```java
Table table = connection.getTable(tablePath);

List<GenericRow> rows = users.stream().map(user -> {
    GenericRow row = new GenericRow(4);
    row.setField(0, BinaryString.fromString(user.getId()));
    row.setField(1, user.getAge());
    row.setField(2, TimestampNtz.fromLocalDateTime(user.getCreatedAt()));
    row.setField(3, user.isActive());
    return row;
}).collect(Collectors.toList());
        
System.out.println("Upserting rows to the table");
UpsertWriter writer = table.newUpsert().createWriter();

// upsert() is a non-blocking call that sends data to Fluss server with batching and timeout
rows.forEach(writer::upsert);

// call flush() to blocking the thread until all data is written successfully
writer.flush();
```

For a Log table you can use the `AppendWriter` API to write data.
```java
table.newAppend().createWriter().append(row);
```

### Scanner
In order to read data from Fluss tables, first you need to create a Scanner instance. Then users can subscribe to the table buckets and 
start polling for records.
```java
LogScanner logScanner = table.newScan()
        .createLogScanner();

int numBuckets = table.getTableInfo().getNumBuckets();
System.out.println("Number of buckets: " + numBuckets);
for (int i = 0; i < numBuckets; i++) {     
    System.out.println("Subscribing to bucket " + i);
    logScanner.subscribeFromBeginning(i);
}

long scanned = 0;
Map<Integer, List<String>> rowsMap = new HashMap<>();

while (true) {     
    System.out.println("Polling for records...");
    ScanRecords scanRecords = logScanner.poll(Duration.ofSeconds(1));
    for (TableBucket bucket : scanRecords.buckets()) {
        for (ScanRecord record : scanRecords.records(bucket)) {
            InternalRow row = record.getRow();
            // Process the row
            ...
        }
    }
    scanned += scanRecords.count();
}
```

### Lookup
You can also use the Fluss API to perform lookups on a table. This is useful for querying specific records based on their primary key or prefix key.
```java
// Lookup by primary key
LookupResult lookup = table.newLookup()
                .createLookuper()
                .lookup(rowKey)
                .get();
// Lookup by prefix key
LookupResult prefixLookup = table.newLookup()
        .lookupBy(prefixKeys)
        .createLookuper()
        .lookup(rowKey)
        .get();
```
