website/community/welcome.md, before:

---
title: Welcome
sidebar_position: 1
---

<!--
 Copyright (c) 2025 Alibaba Group Holding Ltd.

 Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
 you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
 You may obtain a copy of the License at

      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

 Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
 distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
 WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
 See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
 limitations under the License.
-->

# Welcome to Fluss Community

## Issues
Issues are [tracked in GitHub](https://github.com/alibaba/fluss/issues).

If you are not sure on what to work on, look at issue tagged with [good first issue](https://github.com/alibaba/fluss/labels/good%20first%20issue).

## Discussions

The development discussions and user questions happen primarily on [GitHub Discussions](https://github.com/alibaba/fluss/discussions).

## Slack 
We use the [Fluss workspace](https://fluss-hq.slack.com/) on Slack for real-time communication and collaboration. You can join the community using [this invite link](https://join.slack.com/t/fluss-hq/shared_invite/zt-33wlna581-QAooAiCmnYboJS8D_JUcYw).

Please note that this link may occasionally break when Slack does an upgrade. If you encounter problems using it, please let us know by creating an issue on GitHub.

## Community Events
Join our monthly community gatherings to get involved:

**Fluss Contributors Call**

  Invitation link: [Community Events](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/u/0?cid=MjUzMjY2OTFkY2FmNmRiYjk5MzllZmUxNDliYjg1ZjI4ODhhNjU0YzY5Mzc2M2IyZDQ1NzIwNTAyZGU1MjZmOEBncm91cC5jYWxlbmRhci5nb29nbGUuY29t)

These community calls are a great opportunity to discuss the project roadmap, implementation details, and connect with other contributors.

Commit message:

[website] Add embedded Google calendar for community events (#1089)

website/community/welcome.md, after:

---
title: Welcome
sidebar_position: 1
---

<!--
 Copyright (c) 2025 Alibaba Group Holding Ltd.

 Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
 you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
 You may obtain a copy of the License at

      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

 Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
 distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
 WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
 See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
 limitations under the License.
-->

# Welcome to Fluss Community

## Issues
Issues are [tracked in GitHub](https://github.com/alibaba/fluss/issues).

If you are not sure on what to work on, look at issue tagged with [good first issue](https://github.com/alibaba/fluss/labels/good%20first%20issue).

## Discussions

The development discussions and user questions happen primarily on [GitHub Discussions](https://github.com/alibaba/fluss/discussions).

## Slack 
We use the [Fluss workspace](https://fluss-hq.slack.com/) on Slack for real-time communication and collaboration. You can join the community using [this invite link](https://join.slack.com/t/fluss-hq/shared_invite/zt-33wlna581-QAooAiCmnYboJS8D_JUcYw).

Please note that this link may occasionally break when Slack does an upgrade. If you encounter problems using it, please let us know by creating an issue on GitHub.

## Community Events
Join our monthly community gatherings to get involved:

**Fluss Contributors Call**

Invitation link: [Community Events](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/u/0?cid=MjUzMjY2OTFkY2FmNmRiYjk5MzllZmUxNDliYjg1ZjI4ODhhNjU0YzY5Mzc2M2IyZDQ1NzIwNTAyZGU1MjZmOEBncm91cC5jYWxlbmRhci5nb29nbGUuY29t)

Community calls are a great opportunity to discuss the project roadmap, implementation details, and connect with other contributors.

:::info
The **Google Calendar** below uses **Greenwich Mean Time (GMT+0)**!
:::

<iframe src="https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=25326691dcaf6dbb9939efe149bb85f2888a654c693763b2d45720502de526f8%40group.calendar.google.com&ctz=Greenwich" width="800" height="600" frameborder="0" scrolling="no"></iframe>
