README.md, before:

<p align="center">
    <picture>
      <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: dark)" srcset="website/static/img/logo/svg/white_color_logo.svg">
      <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: light)" srcset="website/static/img/logo/svg/colored_logo.svg">
      <!-- Fall back to version that works for dark and light mode -->
      <img alt="Apache Fluss logo" src="website/static/img/logo/svg/white_filled.svg">
    </picture>
</p>

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://fluss.apache.org/docs/">Documentation</a> | <a href="https://fluss.apache.org/docs/quickstart/flink/">QuickStart</a> | <a href="https://fluss.apache.org/community/dev/ide-setup/">Development</a>
</p>

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/apache/fluss/actions/workflows/ci.yaml"><img src="https://github.com/apache/fluss/actions/workflows/ci.yaml/badge.svg?branch=main" alt="CI"></a>
  <a href="https://github.com/apache/fluss/blob/main/LICENSE"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/license-Apache%202-4EB1BA.svg" alt="License"></a>
  <a href="https://join.slack.com/t/apache-fluss/shared_invite/zt-33wlna581-QAooAiCmnYboJS8D_JUcYw"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/slack-join_chat-brightgreen.svg?logo=slack" alt="Slack"></a>
  <a href="https://deepwiki.com/apache/fluss"><img src="https://deepwiki.com/badge.svg" alt="Ask DeepWiki"></a>
</p>

## What is Apache Fluss (Incubating)?

Apache Fluss (Incubating) is a streaming storage built for real-time analytics which can serve as the real-time data layer for Lakehouse architectures.

It bridges the gap between **data streaming** and **data Lakehouse** by enabling low-latency, high-throughput data ingestion and processing while seamlessly integrating with popular compute engines like **Apache Flink**, while 
Apache Spark, and StarRocks are coming soon.

**Fluss (German: river, pronounced `/flus/`)** enables streaming data continuously converging, distributing and flowing into lakes, like a river 🌊

## Features

- **Sub-Second Latency**: Low-latency streaming reads/writes optimized for real-time applications with Apache Flink.
- **Columnar Stream**: 10x improvement in streaming read performance with efficient pushdown projections.
- **Streaming & Lakehouse Unification**: Unified data streaming and Lakehouse with low latencies for powerful analytics.
- **Real-Time Updates**: Cost-efficient partial updates for large-scale data without expensive join operations.
- **Changelog Generation**: Complete changelogs for streaming processors, streamlining analytics workflows.
- **Lookup Queries**: Ultra-high QPS for primary key lookups, enabling efficient dimension table serving.

## Building

Prerequisites for building Apache Fluss:

- Unix-like environment (we use Linux, Mac OS X, Cygwin, WSL)
- Git
- Maven (we require version >= 3.8.6)
- Java 8 or 11

```bash
git clone https://github.com/apache/fluss.git
cd fluss
./mvnw clean package -DskipTests
```

Apache Fluss is now installed in `build-target`. The build command uses Maven Wrapper (`mvnw`) which ensures the correct Maven version is used.

## Contributing

Apache Fluss (Incubating) is open-source, and we’d love your help to keep it growing! Join the [discussions](https://github.com/apache/fluss/discussions),
open [issues](https://github.com/apache/fluss/issues) if you find a bug or request features, contribute code and documentation,
or help us improve the project in any way. All contributions are welcome!

## License

Apache Fluss (Incubating) project is licensed under the [Apache License 2.0](https://github.com/apache/fluss/blob/main/LICENSE).

Commit message:

[hotfix] Update README about building using java 8 (#1838)

README.md, after:

<p align="center">
    <picture>
      <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: dark)" srcset="website/static/img/logo/svg/white_color_logo.svg">
      <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: light)" srcset="website/static/img/logo/svg/colored_logo.svg">
      <!-- Fall back to version that works for dark and light mode -->
      <img alt="Apache Fluss logo" src="website/static/img/logo/svg/white_filled.svg">
    </picture>
</p>

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://fluss.apache.org/docs/">Documentation</a> | <a href="https://fluss.apache.org/docs/quickstart/flink/">QuickStart</a> | <a href="https://fluss.apache.org/community/dev/ide-setup/">Development</a>
</p>

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/apache/fluss/actions/workflows/ci.yaml"><img src="https://github.com/apache/fluss/actions/workflows/ci.yaml/badge.svg?branch=main" alt="CI"></a>
  <a href="https://github.com/apache/fluss/blob/main/LICENSE"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/license-Apache%202-4EB1BA.svg" alt="License"></a>
  <a href="https://join.slack.com/t/apache-fluss/shared_invite/zt-33wlna581-QAooAiCmnYboJS8D_JUcYw"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/slack-join_chat-brightgreen.svg?logo=slack" alt="Slack"></a>
  <a href="https://deepwiki.com/apache/fluss"><img src="https://deepwiki.com/badge.svg" alt="Ask DeepWiki"></a>
</p>

## What is Apache Fluss (Incubating)?

Apache Fluss (Incubating) is a streaming storage built for real-time analytics which can serve as the real-time data layer for Lakehouse architectures.

It bridges the gap between **data streaming** and **data Lakehouse** by enabling low-latency, high-throughput data ingestion and processing while seamlessly integrating with popular compute engines like **Apache Flink**, while 
Apache Spark, and StarRocks are coming soon.

**Fluss (German: river, pronounced `/flus/`)** enables streaming data continuously converging, distributing and flowing into lakes, like a river 🌊

## Features

- **Sub-Second Latency**: Low-latency streaming reads/writes optimized for real-time applications with Apache Flink.
- **Columnar Stream**: 10x improvement in streaming read performance with efficient pushdown projections.
- **Streaming & Lakehouse Unification**: Unified data streaming and Lakehouse with low latencies for powerful analytics.
- **Real-Time Updates**: Cost-efficient partial updates for large-scale data without expensive join operations.
- **Changelog Generation**: Complete changelogs for streaming processors, streamlining analytics workflows.
- **Lookup Queries**: Ultra-high QPS for primary key lookups, enabling efficient dimension table serving.

## Building

Prerequisites for building Apache Fluss:

- Unix-like environment (we use Linux, Mac OS X, Cygwin, WSL)
- Git
- Maven (we require version >= 3.8.6)
- Java 8 or 11

```bash
git clone https://github.com/apache/fluss.git
cd fluss
# in case of java 11
./mvnw clean package -DskipTests
# or in case of java 8
./mvnw clean package -DskipTests -Pjava8
```

Apache Fluss is now installed in `build-target`. The build command uses Maven Wrapper (`mvnw`) which ensures the correct Maven version is used.

## Contributing

Apache Fluss (Incubating) is open-source, and we’d love your help to keep it growing! Join the [discussions](https://github.com/apache/fluss/discussions),
open [issues](https://github.com/apache/fluss/issues) if you find a bug or request features, contribute code and documentation,
or help us improve the project in any way. All contributions are welcome!

## License

Apache Fluss (Incubating) project is licensed under the [Apache License 2.0](https://github.com/apache/fluss/blob/main/LICENSE).
