website/docs/table-design/data-types.md, before:

---
title: "Data Types"
sidebar_position: 5
---

# Data Types

Fluss has a rich set of native data types available to users. All the data types of Fluss are as follows:

| DataType                                                        | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
|-----------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| BOOLEAN                                                         | A boolean with a (possibly) three-valued logic of TRUE, FALSE, UNKNOWN.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| TINYINT                                                         | A 1-byte signed integer with values from -128 to 127.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| SMALLINT                                                        | A 2-byte signed integer with values from -32,768 to 32,767.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| INT                                                             | A 4-byte signed integer with values from -2,147,483,648 to 2,147,483,647.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| BIGINT                                                          | An 8-byte signed integer with values from -9,223,372,036,854,775,808 to 9,223,372,036,854,775,807.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| FLOAT                                                           | A 4-byte single precision floating point number.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| DOUBLE                                                          | An 8-byte double precision floating point number.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| CHAR(n)                                                         | A fixed-length character string where n is the number of code points. n must have a value between 1 and Integer.MAX_VALUE (both inclusive).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| STRING                                                          | A variable-length character string.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| DECIMAL(p, s)                                                   | A decimal number with fixed precision and scale where p is the number of digits in a number (=precision) and s is the number of digits to the right of the decimal point in a number (=scale). p must have a value between 1 and 38 (both inclusive). s must have a value between 0 and p (both inclusive).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| DATE                                                            | A date consisting of year-month-day with values ranging from 0000-01-01 to 9999-12-31. <br/>Compared to the SQL standard, the range starts at year 0000.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| TIME                                                            | A time WITHOUT time zone with no fractional seconds by default. <br/> An instance consists of `hour:minute:second` with up to second precision and values ranging from 00:00:00 to 23:59:59. <br/>Compared to the SQL standard, leap seconds (23:59:60 and 23:59:61) are not supported as the semantics are closer to java.time.LocalTime. A time WITH time zone is not provided.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| TIME(p)                                                         | A time WITHOUT time zone where p is the number of digits of fractional seconds (=precision). p must have a value between 0 and 9 (both inclusive).<br/> An instance consists of `hour:minute:second[.fractional]` with up to nanosecond precision and values ranging from 00:00:00.000000000 to 23:59:59.999999999. <br/>Compared to the SQL standard, leap seconds (23:59:60 and 23:59:61) are not supported as the semantics are closer to java.time.LocalTime. A time WITH time zone is not provided.                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| TIMESTAMP                                                       | A timestamp WITHOUT time zone with 6 digits of fractional seconds by default.<br/> An instance consists of `year-month-day hour:minute:second[.fractional]` with up to microsecond precision and values ranging from 0000-01-01 00:00:00.000000 to 9999-12-31 23:59:59.999999. <br/>Compared to the SQL standard, leap seconds (23:59:60 and 23:59:61) are not supported as the semantics are closer to java.time.LocalDateTime.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| TIMESTAMP(p)                                                    | A timestamp WITHOUT time zone where p is the number of digits of fractional seconds (=precision). p must have a value between 0 and 9 (both inclusive). <br/>An instance consists of `year-month-day hour:minute:second[.fractional]` with up to nanosecond precision and values ranging from 0000-01-01 00:00:00.000000000 to 9999-12-31 23:59:59.999999999.<br/>Compared to the SQL standard, leap seconds (23:59:60 and 23:59:61) are not supported as the semantics are closer to java.time.LocalDateTime.                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| TIMESTAMP_LTZ                                                   | A timestamp WITH local time zone `TIMESTAMP WITH LOCAL TIME ZONE` with 6 digits of fractional seconds by default. <br/>An instance consists of `year-month-day hour:minute:second[.fractional]` zone with up to microsecond precision and values ranging from 0000-01-01 00:00:00.000000 to 9999-12-31 23:59:59.999999. <br/> Compared to the SQL standard, leap seconds (23:59:60 and 23:59:61) are not supported as the semantics are closer to java.time.Instant.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| TIMESTAMP_LTZ(p)                                                | A timestamp WITH local time zone `TIMESTAMP WITH LOCAL TIME ZONE` where p is the number of digits of fractional seconds (=precision). p must have a value between 0 and 9 (both inclusive). <br/>An instance consists of `year-month-day hour:minute:second[.fractional]` with up to nanosecond precision and values ranging from 0000-01-01 00:00:00.000000000 to 9999-12-31 23:59:59.999999999. <br/> Compared to the SQL standard, leap seconds (23:59:60 and 23:59:61) are not supported as the semantics are closer to java.time.Instant                                                                                                                                                        |
| BINARY(n)                                                       | A fixed-length binary string (=a sequence of bytes) where n is the number of bytes. n must have a value between 1 and Integer.MAX_VALUE (both inclusive).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| BYTES                                                           | A variable-length binary string (=a sequence of bytes).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| ARRAY\<t\>                                                      | An array of elements with same subtype. <br/>Compared to the SQL standard, the maximum cardinality of an array cannot be specified but is fixed at 2,147,483,647. Also, any valid type is supported as a subtype.<br/>The type can be declared using ARRAY\<t\> where t is the data type of the contained elements.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| ROW\<n0 t0, n1 t1, ...\><br/>ROW\<n0 t0 'd0', n1 t1 'd1', ...\> | A sequence of fields. <br/>A field consists of a field name, field type, and an optional description. The most specific type of a row of a table is a row type. In this case, each column of the row corresponds to the field of the row type that has the same ordinal position as the column. <br/>Compared to the SQL standard, an optional field description simplifies the handling with complex structures. <br/>A row type is similar to the STRUCT type known from other non-standard-compliant frameworks. <br/>The type can be declared using ROW\<n0 t0 'd0', n1 t1 'd1', ...\> where n is the unique name of a field, t is the logical type of a field, d is the description of a field. |

Commit message:

[docs] Add MAP type to data types and Paimon integration documentation (#2332)

website/docs/table-design/data-types.md, after:

---
title: "Data Types"
sidebar_position: 5
---

# Data Types

Fluss has a rich set of native data types available to users. All the data types of Fluss are as follows:

| DataType                                                        | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
|-----------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| BOOLEAN                                                         | A boolean with a (possibly) three-valued logic of TRUE, FALSE, UNKNOWN.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| TINYINT                                                         | A 1-byte signed integer with values from -128 to 127.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| SMALLINT                                                        | A 2-byte signed integer with values from -32,768 to 32,767.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| INT                                                             | A 4-byte signed integer with values from -2,147,483,648 to 2,147,483,647.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| BIGINT                                                          | An 8-byte signed integer with values from -9,223,372,036,854,775,808 to 9,223,372,036,854,775,807.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| FLOAT                                                           | A 4-byte single precision floating point number.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| DOUBLE                                                          | An 8-byte double precision floating point number.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| CHAR(n)                                                         | A fixed-length character string where n is the number of code points. n must have a value between 1 and Integer.MAX_VALUE (both inclusive).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| STRING                                                          | A variable-length character string.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| DECIMAL(p, s)                                                   | A decimal number with fixed precision and scale where p is the number of digits in a number (=precision) and s is the number of digits to the right of the decimal point in a number (=scale). p must have a value between 1 and 38 (both inclusive). s must have a value between 0 and p (both inclusive).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| DATE                                                            | A date consisting of year-month-day with values ranging from 0000-01-01 to 9999-12-31. <br/>Compared to the SQL standard, the range starts at year 0000.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| TIME                                                            | A time WITHOUT time zone with no fractional seconds by default. <br/> An instance consists of `hour:minute:second` with up to second precision and values ranging from 00:00:00 to 23:59:59. <br/>Compared to the SQL standard, leap seconds (23:59:60 and 23:59:61) are not supported as the semantics are closer to java.time.LocalTime. A time WITH time zone is not provided.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| TIME(p)                                                         | A time WITHOUT time zone where p is the number of digits of fractional seconds (=precision). p must have a value between 0 and 9 (both inclusive).<br/> An instance consists of `hour:minute:second[.fractional]` with up to nanosecond precision and values ranging from 00:00:00.000000000 to 23:59:59.999999999. <br/>Compared to the SQL standard, leap seconds (23:59:60 and 23:59:61) are not supported as the semantics are closer to java.time.LocalTime. A time WITH time zone is not provided.                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| TIMESTAMP                                                       | A timestamp WITHOUT time zone with 6 digits of fractional seconds by default.<br/> An instance consists of `year-month-day hour:minute:second[.fractional]` with up to microsecond precision and values ranging from 0000-01-01 00:00:00.000000 to 9999-12-31 23:59:59.999999. <br/>Compared to the SQL standard, leap seconds (23:59:60 and 23:59:61) are not supported as the semantics are closer to java.time.LocalDateTime.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| TIMESTAMP(p)                                                    | A timestamp WITHOUT time zone where p is the number of digits of fractional seconds (=precision). p must have a value between 0 and 9 (both inclusive). <br/>An instance consists of `year-month-day hour:minute:second[.fractional]` with up to nanosecond precision and values ranging from 0000-01-01 00:00:00.000000000 to 9999-12-31 23:59:59.999999999.<br/>Compared to the SQL standard, leap seconds (23:59:60 and 23:59:61) are not supported as the semantics are closer to java.time.LocalDateTime.                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| TIMESTAMP_LTZ                                                   | A timestamp WITH local time zone `TIMESTAMP WITH LOCAL TIME ZONE` with 6 digits of fractional seconds by default. <br/>An instance consists of `year-month-day hour:minute:second[.fractional]` zone with up to microsecond precision and values ranging from 0000-01-01 00:00:00.000000 to 9999-12-31 23:59:59.999999. <br/> Compared to the SQL standard, leap seconds (23:59:60 and 23:59:61) are not supported as the semantics are closer to java.time.Instant.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| TIMESTAMP_LTZ(p)                                                | A timestamp WITH local time zone `TIMESTAMP WITH LOCAL TIME ZONE` where p is the number of digits of fractional seconds (=precision). p must have a value between 0 and 9 (both inclusive). <br/>An instance consists of `year-month-day hour:minute:second[.fractional]` with up to nanosecond precision and values ranging from 0000-01-01 00:00:00.000000000 to 9999-12-31 23:59:59.999999999. <br/> Compared to the SQL standard, leap seconds (23:59:60 and 23:59:61) are not supported as the semantics are closer to java.time.Instant                                                                                                                                                        |
| BINARY(n)                                                       | A fixed-length binary string (=a sequence of bytes) where n is the number of bytes. n must have a value between 1 and Integer.MAX_VALUE (both inclusive).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| BYTES                                                           | A variable-length binary string (=a sequence of bytes).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| ARRAY\<t\>                                                      | An array of elements with same subtype. <br/>Compared to the SQL standard, the maximum cardinality of an array cannot be specified but is fixed at 2,147,483,647. Also, any valid type is supported as a subtype.<br/>The type can be declared using ARRAY\<t\> where t is the data type of the contained elements.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| MAP\<kt, vt\>                                                   | An associative array that maps keys to values. A map cannot contain duplicate keys; each key can map to at most one value. Map keys are always non-nullable and will be automatically converted to non-nullable types if a nullable key type is provided. There is no restriction of key types; it is the responsibility of the user to ensure uniqueness. The map type is an extension to the SQL standard.<br/>The type can be declared using MAP\<kt, vt\> where kt is the data type of the key elements and vt is the data type of the value elements.                                        |
| ROW\<n0 t0, n1 t1, ...\><br/>ROW\<n0 t0 'd0', n1 t1 'd1', ...\> | A sequence of fields. <br/>A field consists of a field name, field type, and an optional description. The most specific type of a row of a table is a row type. In this case, each column of the row corresponds to the field of the row type that has the same ordinal position as the column. <br/>Compared to the SQL standard, an optional field description simplifies the handling with complex structures. <br/>A row type is similar to the STRUCT type known from other non-standard-compliant frameworks. <br/>The type can be declared using ROW\<n0 t0 'd0', n1 t1 'd1', ...\> where n is the unique name of a field, t is the logical type of a field, d is the description of a field. |
