website/docs/engine-flink/ddl.md, before:

---
sidebar_label: DDL
title: Flink DDL
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Flink DDL

## Create Catalog
Fluss supports creating and managing tables through the Fluss Catalog.
```sql title="Flink SQL"
CREATE CATALOG fluss_catalog WITH (
  'type' = 'fluss',
  'bootstrap.servers' = 'fluss-server-1:9123'
);
```

```sql title="Flink SQL"
USE CATALOG fluss_catalog;
```

The following properties can be set if using the Fluss catalog:

| Option                         | Required | Default   | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
|--------------------------------|----------|-----------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| type                           | required | (none)    | Catalog type, must be 'fluss' here.                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| bootstrap.servers              | required | (none)    | Comma separated list of Fluss servers.                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| default-database               | optional | fluss     | The default database to use when switching to this catalog.                                                                                                                                                            |
| client.security.protocol       | optional | PLAINTEXT | The security protocol used to communicate with brokers. Currently, only `PLAINTEXT` and `SASL` are supported, the configuration value is case insensitive.                                                             |
| `client.security.{protocol}.*` | optional | (none)    | Client-side configuration properties for a specific authentication protocol. E.g., client.security.sasl.jaas.config. More Details in [authentication](../security/authentication.md)                                   |
| `{lake-format}.*`              | optional | (none)    | Extra properties to be passed to the lake catalog. This is useful for configuring sensitive settings, such as the username and password required for lake catalog authentication. E.g., `paimon.jdbc.password = pass`. |

The following statements assume that the current catalog has been switched to the Fluss catalog using the `USE CATALOG <catalog_name>` statement.

## Create Database

By default, FlussCatalog will use the `fluss` database in Flink. You can use the following example to create a separate database to avoid creating tables under the default `fluss` database:

```sql title="Flink SQL"
CREATE DATABASE my_db;
```

```sql title="Flink SQL"
USE my_db;
```

## Drop Database

To delete a database, this will drop all the tables in the database as well:

```sql title="Flink SQL"
-- Flink doesn't allow drop current database, switch to Fluss default database
USE fluss;
```

```sql title="Flink SQL"
-- drop the database
DROP DATABASE my_db;
```

## Create Table

### Primary Key Table

The following SQL statement will create a [Primary Key Table](table-design/table-types/pk-table/index.md) with a primary key consisting of shop_id and user_id.
```sql title="Flink SQL"
CREATE TABLE my_pk_table (
  shop_id BIGINT,
  user_id BIGINT,
  num_orders INT,
  total_amount INT,
  PRIMARY KEY (shop_id, user_id) NOT ENFORCED
) WITH (
  'bucket.num' = '4'
);
```

### Log Table

The following SQL statement creates a [Log Table](table-design/table-types/log-table.md) by not specifying primary key clause.

```sql title="Flink SQL"
CREATE TABLE my_log_table (
  order_id BIGINT,
  item_id BIGINT,
  amount INT,
  address STRING
) WITH (
  'bucket.num' = '8'
);
```

### Partitioned (Primary Key/Log) Table

:::note
1. Currently, Fluss only supports partitioned field with `STRING` type
2. For the Partitioned Primary Key Table, the partitioned field (`dt` in this case) must be a subset of the primary key (`dt, shop_id, user_id` in this case)
:::

The following SQL statement creates a Partitioned Primary Key Table in Fluss.

```sql title="Flink SQL"
CREATE TABLE my_part_pk_table (
  dt STRING,
  shop_id BIGINT,
  user_id BIGINT,
  num_orders INT,
  total_amount INT,
  PRIMARY KEY (dt, shop_id, user_id) NOT ENFORCED
) PARTITIONED BY (dt);
```

The following SQL statement creates a Partitioned Log Table in Fluss.

```sql title="Flink SQL"
CREATE TABLE my_part_log_table (
  order_id BIGINT,
  item_id BIGINT,
  amount INT,
  address STRING,
  dt STRING
) PARTITIONED BY (dt);
```
:::info
Fluss partitioned table supports dynamic partition creation, which means you can write data into a partition without pre-creating it.
You can use the `INSERT INTO` statement to write data into a partitioned table, and Fluss will automatically create the partition if it does not exist.
See the [Dynamic Partitioning](table-design/data-distribution/partitioning.md#dynamic-partitioning) for more details.
But you can still use the [Add Partition](engine-flink/ddl.md#add-partition) statement to manually add partitions if needed.
:::

#### Multi-Fields Partitioned Table

Fluss also supports [Multi-Fields Partitioning](table-design/data-distribution/partitioning.md#multi-field-partitioned-tables), the following SQL statement creates a Multi-Fields Partitioned Log Table in Fluss:

```sql title="Flink SQL"
CREATE TABLE my_multi_fields_part_log_table (
  order_id BIGINT,
  item_id BIGINT,
  amount INT,
  address STRING,
  dt STRING,
  nation STRING
) PARTITIONED BY (dt, nation);
```

#### Auto Partitioned (Primary Key/Log) Table

Fluss also supports creating Auto Partitioned (Primary Key/Log) Table. The following SQL statement creates an Auto Partitioned Primary Key Table in Fluss.

```sql title="Flink SQL"
CREATE TABLE my_auto_part_pk_table (
  dt STRING,
  shop_id BIGINT,
  user_id BIGINT,
  num_orders INT,
  total_amount INT,
  PRIMARY KEY (dt, shop_id, user_id) NOT ENFORCED
) PARTITIONED BY (dt) WITH (
  'bucket.num' = '4',
  'table.auto-partition.enabled' = 'true',
  'table.auto-partition.time-unit' = 'day'
);
```

The following SQL statement creates an Auto Partitioned Log Table in Fluss.

```sql title="Flink SQL"
CREATE TABLE my_auto_part_log_table (
  order_id BIGINT,
  item_id BIGINT,
  amount INT,
  address STRING,
  dt STRING
) PARTITIONED BY (dt) WITH (
  'bucket.num' = '8',
  'table.auto-partition.enabled' = 'true',
  'table.auto-partition.time-unit' = 'hour'
);
```

For more details about Auto Partitioned (Primary Key/Log) Table, refer to [Auto Partitioning](table-design/data-distribution/partitioning.md#auto-partitioning).


### Options

The supported option in `WITH` parameters when creating a table are listed in [Connector Options](engine-flink/options.md) page.

## Create Table Like

To create a table with the same schema, partitioning, and table properties as another table, use `CREATE TABLE LIKE`.

```sql title="Flink SQL"
-- there is a temporary datagen table
CREATE TEMPORARY TABLE datagen (
    user_id BIGINT,
    item_id BIGINT,
    behavior STRING,
    dt STRING,
    hh STRING
) WITH (
    'connector' = 'datagen',
    'rows-per-second' = '10'
);
```

```sql title="Flink SQL"
-- creates Fluss table which derives the metadata from the temporary table excluding options
CREATE TABLE my_table LIKE datagen (EXCLUDING OPTIONS);
```

For more details, refer to the [Flink CREATE TABLE](https://nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.20/docs/dev/table/sql/create/#like) documentation.


## Drop Table

To delete a table, run:

```sql title="Flink SQL"
DROP TABLE my_table;
```

This will entirely remove all the data of the table in the Fluss cluster.

## Alter Table
### SET properties
The SET statement allows users to configure one or more connector options including the [Storage Options](engine-flink/options.md#storage-options) for a specified table. If a particular option is already configured on the table, it will be overridden with the new value.

When using SET to modify [Storage Options](engine-flink/options.md#storage-options), the Fluss cluster will dynamically apply the changes to the table. This can be useful for modifying table behavior without needing to recreate the table.

**Supported Options to modify**
- All [Read Options](engine-flink/options.md#read-options), [Write Options](engine-flink/options.md#write-options), [Lookup Options](engine-flink/options.md#lookup-options) and [Other Options](engine-flink/options.md#other-options) except `bootstrap.servers`.
- The following [Storage Options](engine-flink/options.md#storage-options):
  - `table.datalake.enabled`: Enable or disable lakehouse storage for the table.

```sql title="Flink SQL"
ALTER TABLE my_table SET ('table.datalake.enabled' = 'true');
```

**Limits**
- If lakehouse storage (`table.datalake.enabled`) is already enabled for a table, options with lakehouse format prefixes (e.g., `paimon.*`) cannot be modified again.


### RESET properties
Reset one or more connector option including the [Storage Options](engine-flink/options.md#storage-options) to its default value.

The following example illustrates reset the `table.datalake.enabled` option to its default value `false` on the table.

```sql title="Flink SQL"
ALTER TABLE my_table RESET ('table.datalake.enabled');
```


## Add Partition

Fluss supports manually adding partitions to an existing partitioned table through the Fluss Catalog. If the specified partition 
does not exist, Fluss will create the partition. If the specified partition already exists, Fluss will ignore the request 
or throw an exception.

To add partitions, run:

```sql title="Flink SQL"
-- Add a partition to a single field partitioned table
ALTER TABLE my_part_pk_table ADD PARTITION (dt = '2025-03-05');

-- Add a partition to a multi-field partitioned table
ALTER TABLE my_multi_fields_part_log_table ADD PARTITION (dt = '2025-03-05', nation = 'US');
```

For more details, refer to the [Flink ALTER TABLE(ADD)](https://nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.20/docs/dev/table/sql/alter/#add) documentation.

## Show Partitions

To show all the partitions of a partitioned table, run:
```sql title="Flink SQL"
SHOW PARTITIONS my_part_pk_table;
```

For multi-field partitioned tables, you can use the `SHOW PARTITIONS` command with either **partial** or **full** partition field conditions to list matching partitions.

```sql title="Flink SQL"
-- Show partitions using a partial partition filter
SHOW PARTITIONS my_multi_fields_part_log_table PARTITION (dt = '2025-03-05');

-- Show partitions using a full partition filter
SHOW PARTITIONS my_multi_fields_part_log_table PARTITION (dt = '2025-03-05', nation = 'US');
```

For more details, refer to the [Flink SHOW PARTITIONS](https://nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.20/docs/dev/table/sql/show/#show-partitions) documentation.

## Drop Partition

Fluss also supports manually dropping partitions from an existing partitioned table through the Fluss Catalog. If the specified partition 
does not exist, Fluss will ignore the request or throw an exception.


To drop partitions, run:
```sql title="Flink SQL"
-- Drop a partition from a single field partitioned table
ALTER TABLE my_part_pk_table DROP PARTITION (dt = '2025-03-05');

-- Drop a partition from a multi-field partitioned table
ALTER TABLE my_multi_fields_part_log_table DROP PARTITION (dt = '2025-03-05', nation = 'US');
```

For more details, refer to the [Flink ALTER TABLE(DROP)](https://nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.20/docs/dev/table/sql/alter/#drop) documentation.

## Materialized Table
### Overview
Flink Materialized Table is a new table type introduced in Flink SQL that simplifies the development of both batch and streaming data pipelines.
By defining the data freshness and query during creation, Flink automatically derives the table schema and generates a refresh pipeline to maintain the desired freshness level. This provides a unified and consistent development experience for both real-time and batch workloads. For more information, see the [Flink Materialized Table](https://nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.20/docs/dev/table/materialized-table/overview) documentation.

Starting from Fluss version 0.8, Flink Materialized Table is now supported, which can significantly reduce the cost of building real-time data pipelines with Apache Flink and Fluss. Materialized tables in Fluss are implemented as regular Fluss tables with special metadata to identify them as materialized tables.

### Create Materialized Table

Materialized tables are created using the `CREATE MATERIALIZED TABLE` statement with a freshness interval and a query definition:

```sql title="Flink SQL"
CREATE MATERIALIZED TABLE shop_summary
FRESHNESS = INTERVAL '5' SECOND
AS SELECT 
  DATE_FORMAT(order_time, 'yyyy-MM-dd') AS order_date,
  shop_id,
  COUNT(*) AS order_count,
  SUM(amount) AS total_amount
FROM orders
GROUP BY DATE_FORMAT(order_time, 'yyyy-MM-dd'), shop_id;
```

#### Supported Refresh Modes

Apache Fluss currently supports **CONTINUOUS** refresh mode for materialized table, which means the materialized table is continuously refreshed. The **FULL** refresh mode will be supported in future releases.

#### Schema Definition

The schema of a materialized table is automatically inferred from the query definition. You cannot manually specify column names and types - they are derived from the SELECT statement.

```sql title="Flink SQL"
-- The schema will be automatically inferred as:
-- order_date: STRING
-- shop_id: BIGINT  
-- order_count: BIGINT
-- total_amount: BIGINT
CREATE MATERIALIZED TABLE daily_sales
FRESHNESS = INTERVAL '1' MINUTE
AS SELECT 
  DATE_FORMAT(created_at, 'yyyy-MM-dd') AS order_date,
  shop_id,
  COUNT(*) AS order_count,
  SUM(amount) AS total_amount
FROM sales_events
GROUP BY DATE_FORMAT(created_at, 'yyyy-MM-dd'), shop_id;
```

### Alter Materialized Table

You can suspend and resume materialized tables to control their refresh behavior:

#### Suspend Materialized Table

```sql title="Flink SQL"
ALTER MATERIALIZED TABLE shop_summary SUSPEND;
```

This stops the automatic refresh of the materialized table and saves the current state.

#### Resume Materialized Table

```sql title="Flink SQL"
ALTER MATERIALIZED TABLE shop_summary RESUME;
```

This resumes the automatic refresh of the materialized table from the last saved state.

### Drop Materialized Table

To delete a materialized table:

```sql title="Flink SQL"
DROP MATERIALIZED TABLE shop_summary;
```

This will drop the materialized table and stop the background refresh job.

### Materialized Table Options

Materialized tables support the same table options as regular Fluss tables, including partitioning and bucketing:

```sql title="Flink SQL"
CREATE MATERIALIZED TABLE partitioned_summary
FRESHNESS = INTERVAL '10' SECOND
AS SELECT 
  dt,
  shop_id,
  COUNT(*) AS order_count
FROM orders
GROUP BY dt, shop_id
PARTITIONED BY (dt)
WITH (
  'bucket.num' = '4'
);
```

### Limitations

- Only continuous refresh mode is supported
- Schema is automatically derived from the query
- Materialized tables are stored as regular Fluss tables with special metadata

Commit message:

[docs] Add document about ADD COLUMN AT LAST (#2203)
---------

Co-authored-by: Jark Wu <jark@apache.org>

website/docs/engine-flink/ddl.md, after:

---
sidebar_label: DDL
title: Flink DDL
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Flink DDL

## Create Catalog
Fluss supports creating and managing tables through the Fluss Catalog.
```sql title="Flink SQL"
CREATE CATALOG fluss_catalog WITH (
  'type' = 'fluss',
  'bootstrap.servers' = 'fluss-server-1:9123'
);
```

```sql title="Flink SQL"
USE CATALOG fluss_catalog;
```

The following properties can be set if using the Fluss catalog:

| Option                         | Required | Default   | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
|--------------------------------|----------|-----------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| type                           | required | (none)    | Catalog type, must be 'fluss' here.                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| bootstrap.servers              | required | (none)    | Comma separated list of Fluss servers.                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| default-database               | optional | fluss     | The default database to use when switching to this catalog.                                                                                                                                                            |
| client.security.protocol       | optional | PLAINTEXT | The security protocol used to communicate with brokers. Currently, only `PLAINTEXT` and `SASL` are supported, the configuration value is case insensitive.                                                             |
| `client.security.{protocol}.*` | optional | (none)    | Client-side configuration properties for a specific authentication protocol. E.g., client.security.sasl.jaas.config. More Details in [authentication](../security/authentication.md)                                   |
| `{lake-format}.*`              | optional | (none)    | Extra properties to be passed to the lake catalog. This is useful for configuring sensitive settings, such as the username and password required for lake catalog authentication. E.g., `paimon.jdbc.password = pass`. |

The following statements assume that the current catalog has been switched to the Fluss catalog using the `USE CATALOG <catalog_name>` statement.

## Create Database

By default, FlussCatalog will use the `fluss` database in Flink. You can use the following example to create a separate database to avoid creating tables under the default `fluss` database:

```sql title="Flink SQL"
CREATE DATABASE my_db;
```

```sql title="Flink SQL"
USE my_db;
```

## Drop Database

To delete a database, this will drop all the tables in the database as well:

```sql title="Flink SQL"
-- Flink doesn't allow drop current database, switch to Fluss default database
USE fluss;
```

```sql title="Flink SQL"
-- drop the database
DROP DATABASE my_db;
```

## Create Table

### Primary Key Table

The following SQL statement will create a [Primary Key Table](table-design/table-types/pk-table/index.md) with a primary key consisting of shop_id and user_id.
```sql title="Flink SQL"
CREATE TABLE my_pk_table (
  shop_id BIGINT,
  user_id BIGINT,
  num_orders INT,
  total_amount INT,
  PRIMARY KEY (shop_id, user_id) NOT ENFORCED
) WITH (
  'bucket.num' = '4'
);
```

### Log Table

The following SQL statement creates a [Log Table](table-design/table-types/log-table.md) by not specifying primary key clause.

```sql title="Flink SQL"
CREATE TABLE my_log_table (
  order_id BIGINT,
  item_id BIGINT,
  amount INT,
  address STRING
) WITH (
  'bucket.num' = '8'
);
```

### Partitioned (Primary Key/Log) Table

:::note
1. Currently, Fluss only supports partitioned field with `STRING` type
2. For the Partitioned Primary Key Table, the partitioned field (`dt` in this case) must be a subset of the primary key (`dt, shop_id, user_id` in this case)
:::

The following SQL statement creates a Partitioned Primary Key Table in Fluss.

```sql title="Flink SQL"
CREATE TABLE my_part_pk_table (
  dt STRING,
  shop_id BIGINT,
  user_id BIGINT,
  num_orders INT,
  total_amount INT,
  PRIMARY KEY (dt, shop_id, user_id) NOT ENFORCED
) PARTITIONED BY (dt);
```

The following SQL statement creates a Partitioned Log Table in Fluss.

```sql title="Flink SQL"
CREATE TABLE my_part_log_table (
  order_id BIGINT,
  item_id BIGINT,
  amount INT,
  address STRING,
  dt STRING
) PARTITIONED BY (dt);
```
:::info
Fluss partitioned table supports dynamic partition creation, which means you can write data into a partition without pre-creating it.
You can use the `INSERT INTO` statement to write data into a partitioned table, and Fluss will automatically create the partition if it does not exist.
See the [Dynamic Partitioning](table-design/data-distribution/partitioning.md#dynamic-partitioning) for more details.
But you can still use the [Add Partition](engine-flink/ddl.md#add-partition) statement to manually add partitions if needed.
:::

#### Multi-Fields Partitioned Table

Fluss also supports [Multi-Fields Partitioning](table-design/data-distribution/partitioning.md#multi-field-partitioned-tables), the following SQL statement creates a Multi-Fields Partitioned Log Table in Fluss:

```sql title="Flink SQL"
CREATE TABLE my_multi_fields_part_log_table (
  order_id BIGINT,
  item_id BIGINT,
  amount INT,
  address STRING,
  dt STRING,
  nation STRING
) PARTITIONED BY (dt, nation);
```

#### Auto Partitioned (Primary Key/Log) Table

Fluss also supports creating Auto Partitioned (Primary Key/Log) Table. The following SQL statement creates an Auto Partitioned Primary Key Table in Fluss.

```sql title="Flink SQL"
CREATE TABLE my_auto_part_pk_table (
  dt STRING,
  shop_id BIGINT,
  user_id BIGINT,
  num_orders INT,
  total_amount INT,
  PRIMARY KEY (dt, shop_id, user_id) NOT ENFORCED
) PARTITIONED BY (dt) WITH (
  'bucket.num' = '4',
  'table.auto-partition.enabled' = 'true',
  'table.auto-partition.time-unit' = 'day'
);
```

The following SQL statement creates an Auto Partitioned Log Table in Fluss.

```sql title="Flink SQL"
CREATE TABLE my_auto_part_log_table (
  order_id BIGINT,
  item_id BIGINT,
  amount INT,
  address STRING,
  dt STRING
) PARTITIONED BY (dt) WITH (
  'bucket.num' = '8',
  'table.auto-partition.enabled' = 'true',
  'table.auto-partition.time-unit' = 'hour'
);
```

For more details about Auto Partitioned (Primary Key/Log) Table, refer to [Auto Partitioning](table-design/data-distribution/partitioning.md#auto-partitioning).


### Options

The supported option in `WITH` parameters when creating a table are listed in [Connector Options](engine-flink/options.md) page.

## Create Table Like

To create a table with the same schema, partitioning, and table properties as another table, use `CREATE TABLE LIKE`.

```sql title="Flink SQL"
-- there is a temporary datagen table
CREATE TEMPORARY TABLE datagen (
    user_id BIGINT,
    item_id BIGINT,
    behavior STRING,
    dt STRING,
    hh STRING
) WITH (
    'connector' = 'datagen',
    'rows-per-second' = '10'
);
```

```sql title="Flink SQL"
-- creates Fluss table which derives the metadata from the temporary table excluding options
CREATE TABLE my_table LIKE datagen (EXCLUDING OPTIONS);
```

For more details, refer to the [Flink CREATE TABLE](https://nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.20/docs/dev/table/sql/create/#like) documentation.


## Drop Table

To delete a table, run:

```sql title="Flink SQL"
DROP TABLE my_table;
```

This will entirely remove all the data of the table in the Fluss cluster.

## Alter Table

### Add Columns

Fluss allows you to evolve a table's schema by adding new columns. This is a lightweight, metadata-only operation that offers the following benefits:

- **Zero Data Rewrite**: Adding a column does not require rewriting or migrating existing data files.
- **Instant Execution**: The operation completes in milli-seconds, regardless of the table size.
- **Availability**: The table remains online and fully accessible throughout schema evolution, with no disruption to active clients.

Currently, this feature has the following characteristics:

- **Position**: New columns are always appended to the end of the existing column list.
- **Nullability**: Only nullable columns can be added to an existing table to ensure compatibility with existing data.
- **Type Support**: You can add columns of any data type, including complex types such as `ROW`, `MAP`, and `ARRAY`.
- **Nested Fields**: Currently, adding fields within an existing nested `ROW` is not supported. Such operations are categorized as "updating column types" and will be supported in future versions.

You can add a single column or multiple columns using the `ALTER TABLE statement.

```sql title="Flink SQL"
-- Add a single column at the end of the table
ALTER TABLE my_table ADD user_email STRING COMMENT 'User email address';

-- Add multiple columns at the end of the table
ALTER TABLE MyTable ADD (
    user_email STRING COMMENT 'User email address',
    order_quantity INT
);
```


### SET properties
The SET statement allows users to configure one or more connector options including the [Storage Options](engine-flink/options.md#storage-options) for a specified table. If a particular option is already configured on the table, it will be overridden with the new value.

When using SET to modify [Storage Options](engine-flink/options.md#storage-options), the Fluss cluster will dynamically apply the changes to the table. This can be useful for modifying table behavior without needing to recreate the table.

**Supported Options to modify**
- All [Read Options](engine-flink/options.md#read-options), [Write Options](engine-flink/options.md#write-options), [Lookup Options](engine-flink/options.md#lookup-options) and [Other Options](engine-flink/options.md#other-options) except `bootstrap.servers`.
- The following [Storage Options](engine-flink/options.md#storage-options):
  - `table.datalake.enabled`: Enable or disable lakehouse storage for the table.

```sql title="Flink SQL"
ALTER TABLE my_table SET ('table.datalake.enabled' = 'true');
```

**Limits**
- If lakehouse storage (`table.datalake.enabled`) is already enabled for a table, options with lakehouse format prefixes (e.g., `paimon.*`) cannot be modified again.


### RESET properties
Reset one or more connector option including the [Storage Options](engine-flink/options.md#storage-options) to its default value.

The following example illustrates reset the `table.datalake.enabled` option to its default value `false` on the table.

```sql title="Flink SQL"
ALTER TABLE my_table RESET ('table.datalake.enabled');
```

## Add Partition

Fluss supports manually adding partitions to an existing partitioned table through the Fluss Catalog. If the specified partition 
does not exist, Fluss will create the partition. If the specified partition already exists, Fluss will ignore the request 
or throw an exception.

To add partitions, run:

```sql title="Flink SQL"
-- Add a partition to a single field partitioned table
ALTER TABLE my_part_pk_table ADD PARTITION (dt = '2025-03-05');

-- Add a partition to a multi-field partitioned table
ALTER TABLE my_multi_fields_part_log_table ADD PARTITION (dt = '2025-03-05', nation = 'US');
```

For more details, refer to the [Flink ALTER TABLE(ADD)](https://nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.20/docs/dev/table/sql/alter/#add) documentation.

## Show Partitions

To show all the partitions of a partitioned table, run:
```sql title="Flink SQL"
SHOW PARTITIONS my_part_pk_table;
```

For multi-field partitioned tables, you can use the `SHOW PARTITIONS` command with either **partial** or **full** partition field conditions to list matching partitions.

```sql title="Flink SQL"
-- Show partitions using a partial partition filter
SHOW PARTITIONS my_multi_fields_part_log_table PARTITION (dt = '2025-03-05');

-- Show partitions using a full partition filter
SHOW PARTITIONS my_multi_fields_part_log_table PARTITION (dt = '2025-03-05', nation = 'US');
```

For more details, refer to the [Flink SHOW PARTITIONS](https://nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.20/docs/dev/table/sql/show/#show-partitions) documentation.

## Drop Partition

Fluss also supports manually dropping partitions from an existing partitioned table through the Fluss Catalog. If the specified partition 
does not exist, Fluss will ignore the request or throw an exception.


To drop partitions, run:
```sql title="Flink SQL"
-- Drop a partition from a single field partitioned table
ALTER TABLE my_part_pk_table DROP PARTITION (dt = '2025-03-05');

-- Drop a partition from a multi-field partitioned table
ALTER TABLE my_multi_fields_part_log_table DROP PARTITION (dt = '2025-03-05', nation = 'US');
```

For more details, refer to the [Flink ALTER TABLE(DROP)](https://nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.20/docs/dev/table/sql/alter/#drop) documentation.

## Materialized Table
### Overview
Flink Materialized Table is a new table type introduced in Flink SQL that simplifies the development of both batch and streaming data pipelines.
By defining the data freshness and query during creation, Flink automatically derives the table schema and generates a refresh pipeline to maintain the desired freshness level. This provides a unified and consistent development experience for both real-time and batch workloads. For more information, see the [Flink Materialized Table](https://nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.20/docs/dev/table/materialized-table/overview) documentation.

Starting from Fluss version 0.8, Flink Materialized Table is now supported, which can significantly reduce the cost of building real-time data pipelines with Apache Flink and Fluss. Materialized tables in Fluss are implemented as regular Fluss tables with special metadata to identify them as materialized tables.

### Create Materialized Table

Materialized tables are created using the `CREATE MATERIALIZED TABLE` statement with a freshness interval and a query definition:

```sql title="Flink SQL"
CREATE MATERIALIZED TABLE shop_summary
FRESHNESS = INTERVAL '5' SECOND
AS SELECT 
  DATE_FORMAT(order_time, 'yyyy-MM-dd') AS order_date,
  shop_id,
  COUNT(*) AS order_count,
  SUM(amount) AS total_amount
FROM orders
GROUP BY DATE_FORMAT(order_time, 'yyyy-MM-dd'), shop_id;
```

#### Supported Refresh Modes

Apache Fluss currently supports **CONTINUOUS** refresh mode for materialized table, which means the materialized table is continuously refreshed. The **FULL** refresh mode will be supported in future releases.

#### Schema Definition

The schema of a materialized table is automatically inferred from the query definition. You cannot manually specify column names and types - they are derived from the SELECT statement.

```sql title="Flink SQL"
-- The schema will be automatically inferred as:
-- order_date: STRING
-- shop_id: BIGINT  
-- order_count: BIGINT
-- total_amount: BIGINT
CREATE MATERIALIZED TABLE daily_sales
FRESHNESS = INTERVAL '1' MINUTE
AS SELECT 
  DATE_FORMAT(created_at, 'yyyy-MM-dd') AS order_date,
  shop_id,
  COUNT(*) AS order_count,
  SUM(amount) AS total_amount
FROM sales_events
GROUP BY DATE_FORMAT(created_at, 'yyyy-MM-dd'), shop_id;
```

### Alter Materialized Table

You can suspend and resume materialized tables to control their refresh behavior:

#### Suspend Materialized Table

```sql title="Flink SQL"
ALTER MATERIALIZED TABLE shop_summary SUSPEND;
```

This stops the automatic refresh of the materialized table and saves the current state.

#### Resume Materialized Table

```sql title="Flink SQL"
ALTER MATERIALIZED TABLE shop_summary RESUME;
```

This resumes the automatic refresh of the materialized table from the last saved state.

### Drop Materialized Table

To delete a materialized table:

```sql title="Flink SQL"
DROP MATERIALIZED TABLE shop_summary;
```

This will drop the materialized table and stop the background refresh job.

### Materialized Table Options

Materialized tables support the same table options as regular Fluss tables, including partitioning and bucketing:

```sql title="Flink SQL"
CREATE MATERIALIZED TABLE partitioned_summary
FRESHNESS = INTERVAL '10' SECOND
AS SELECT 
  dt,
  shop_id,
  COUNT(*) AS order_count
FROM orders
GROUP BY dt, shop_id
PARTITIONED BY (dt)
WITH (
  'bucket.num' = '4'
);
```

### Limitations

- Only continuous refresh mode is supported
- Schema is automatically derived from the query
- Materialized tables are stored as regular Fluss tables with special metadata
