website/docs/engine-flink/lookups.md, before:

---
sidebar_label: Lookups
sidebar_position: 5
---

# Flink Lookup Joins
Flink lookup joins are important because they enable efficient, real-time enrichment of streaming data with reference data, a common requirement in many real-time analytics and processing scenarios.


## Lookup

### Instructions
- Use a primary key table as a dimension table, and the join condition must include all primary keys of the dimension table.
- Fluss lookup join is in asynchronous mode by default for higher throughput. You can change the mode of lookup join as synchronous mode by setting the SQL Hint `'lookup.async' = 'false'`.

### Examples
1. Create two tables.
```sql title="Flink SQL"
CREATE TABLE `fluss_catalog`.`my_db`.`orders` (
  `o_orderkey` INT NOT NULL,
  `o_custkey` INT NOT NULL,
  `o_orderstatus` CHAR(1) NOT NULL,
  `o_totalprice` DECIMAL(15, 2) NOT NULL,
  `o_orderdate` DATE NOT NULL,
  `o_orderpriority` CHAR(15) NOT NULL,
  `o_clerk` CHAR(15) NOT NULL,
  `o_shippriority` INT NOT NULL,
  `o_comment` STRING NOT NULL,
  `o_dt` STRING NOT NULL,
  PRIMARY KEY (o_orderkey) NOT ENFORCED
);
```

```sql title="Flink SQL"
CREATE TABLE `fluss_catalog`.`my_db`.`customer` (
  `c_custkey` INT NOT NULL,
  `c_name` STRING NOT NULL,
  `c_address` STRING NOT NULL,
  `c_nationkey` INT NOT NULL,
  `c_phone` CHAR(15) NOT NULL,
  `c_acctbal` DECIMAL(15, 2) NOT NULL,
  `c_mktsegment` CHAR(10) NOT NULL,
  `c_comment` STRING NOT NULL,
  PRIMARY KEY (c_custkey) NOT ENFORCED
);
```

2. Perform lookup join.
```sql title="Flink SQL"
USE CATALOG fluss_catalog;
```

```sql title="Flink SQL"
USE my_db;
```

```sql title="Flink SQL"
CREATE TEMPORARY TABLE lookup_join_sink
(
   order_key INT NOT NULL,
   order_totalprice DECIMAL(15, 2) NOT NULL,
   customer_name STRING NOT NULL,
   customer_address STRING NOT NULL
) WITH ('connector' = 'blackhole');
```

```sql title="Flink SQL"
-- look up join in asynchronous mode.
INSERT INTO lookup_join_sink
SELECT `o`.`o_orderkey`, `o`.`o_totalprice`, `c`.`c_name`, `c`.`c_address`
FROM 
(SELECT `orders`.*, proctime() AS ptime FROM `orders`) AS `o`
LEFT JOIN `customer`
FOR SYSTEM_TIME AS OF `o`.`ptime` AS `c`
ON `o`.`o_custkey` = `c`.`c_custkey`;
```

```sql title="Flink SQL"
-- look up join in synchronous mode.
INSERT INTO lookup_join_sink
SELECT `o`.`o_orderkey`, `o`.`o_totalprice`, `c`.`c_name`, `c`.`c_address`
FROM 
(SELECT `orders`.*, proctime() AS ptime FROM `orders`) AS `o`
LEFT JOIN `customer` /*+ OPTIONS('lookup.async' = 'false') */
FOR SYSTEM_TIME AS OF `o`.`ptime` AS `c`
ON `o`.`o_custkey` = `c`.`c_custkey`;
```

### Examples (Partitioned Table)

Continuing from the previous example, if our dimension table is a Fluss partitioned primary key table, as follows:

```sql title="Flink SQL"
CREATE TABLE `fluss_catalog`.`my_db`.`customer_partitioned` (
  `c_custkey` INT NOT NULL,
  `c_name` STRING NOT NULL,
  `c_address` STRING NOT NULL,
  `c_nationkey` INT NOT NULL,
  `c_phone` CHAR(15) NOT NULL,
  `c_acctbal` DECIMAL(15, 2) NOT NULL,
  `c_mktsegment` CHAR(10) NOT NULL,
  `c_comment` STRING NOT NULL,
  `dt` STRING NOT NULL,
  PRIMARY KEY (`c_custkey`, `dt`) NOT ENFORCED
) 
PARTITIONED BY (`dt`)
WITH (
    'table.auto-partition.enabled' = 'true',
    'table.auto-partition.time-unit' = 'year'
);
```

To do a lookup join with the Fluss partitioned primary key table, we need to specify the 
primary keys (including partition key) in the join condition.
```sql title="Flink SQL"
INSERT INTO lookup_join_sink
SELECT `o`.`o_orderkey`, `o`.`o_totalprice`, `c`.`c_name`, `c`.`c_address`
FROM 
(SELECT `orders`.*, proctime() AS ptime FROM `orders`) AS `o`
LEFT JOIN `customer_partitioned`
FOR SYSTEM_TIME AS OF `o`.`ptime` AS `c`
ON `o`.`o_custkey` = `c`.`c_custkey` AND  `o`.`o_dt` = `c`.`dt`;
```

For more details about Fluss partitioned table, see [Partitioned Tables](table-design/data-distribution/partitioning.md).

### Lookup Options


| Option                                          | Type     | Required | Default     | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
|-------------------------------------------------|----------|----------|-------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| lookup.cache                                    | Enum     | optional | NONE        | The caching strategy for this lookup table, including NONE, PARTIAL.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| lookup.max-retries                              | Integer  | optional | 3           | The maximum allowed retries if a lookup operation fails.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| lookup.partial-cache.expire-after-access        | Duration | optional | (none)      | Duration to expire an entry in the cache after accessing.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| lookup.partial-cache.expire-after-write         | Duration | optional | (none)      | Duration to expire an entry in the cache after writing.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| lookup.partial-cache.cache-missing-key          | Boolean  | optional | true        | Whether to store an empty value into the cache if the lookup key doesn't match any rows in the table.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| lookup.partial-cache.max-rows                   | Long     | optional | true        | The maximum number of rows to store in the cache.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |


## Prefix Lookup

### Instructions

- Use a primary key table as a dimension table, and the join condition must a prefix subset of the primary keys of the dimension table.
- The bucket key of Fluss dimension table need to set as the join key when creating Fluss table. 
- Fluss prefix lookup join is in asynchronous mode by default for higher throughput. You can change the mode of prefix lookup join as synchronous mode by setting the SQL Hint `'lookup.async' = 'false'`.


### Examples
1. Create two tables.
```sql title="Flink SQL"
CREATE TABLE `fluss_catalog`.`my_db`.`orders` (
  `o_orderkey` INT NOT NULL,
  `o_custkey` INT NOT NULL,
  `o_orderstatus` CHAR(1) NOT NULL,
  `o_totalprice` DECIMAL(15, 2) NOT NULL,
  `o_orderdate` DATE NOT NULL,
  `o_orderpriority` CHAR(15) NOT NULL,
  `o_clerk` CHAR(15) NOT NULL,
  `o_shippriority` INT NOT NULL,
  `o_comment` STRING NOT NULL,
  `o_dt` STRING NOT NULL,
  PRIMARY KEY (o_orderkey) NOT ENFORCED
);
```

```sql title="Flink SQL"
-- primary keys are (c_custkey, c_nationkey)
-- bucket key is (c_custkey)
CREATE TABLE `fluss_catalog`.`my_db`.`customer` (
  `c_custkey` INT NOT NULL,
  `c_name` STRING NOT NULL,
  `c_address` STRING NOT NULL,
  `c_nationkey` INT NOT NULL,
  `c_phone` CHAR(15) NOT NULL,
  `c_acctbal` DECIMAL(15, 2) NOT NULL,
  `c_mktsegment` CHAR(10) NOT NULL,
  `c_comment` STRING NOT NULL,
  PRIMARY KEY (`c_custkey`, `c_nationkey`) NOT ENFORCED
) WITH (
  'bucket.key' = 'c_custkey' 
);
```

2. Perform prefix lookup.
```sql title="Flink SQL"
USE CATALOG fluss_catalog;
```

```sql title="Flink SQL"
USE my_db;
```

```sql title="Flink SQL"
CREATE TEMPORARY TABLE lookup_join_sink
(
   order_key INT NOT NULL,
   order_totalprice DECIMAL(15, 2) NOT NULL,
   customer_name STRING NOT NULL,
   customer_address STRING NOT NULL
) WITH ('connector' = 'blackhole');
```

```sql title="Flink SQL"
-- prefix look up join in asynchronous mode.
INSERT INTO lookup_join_sink
SELECT `o`.`o_orderkey`, `o`.`o_totalprice`, `c`.`c_name`, `c`.`c_address`
FROM 
(SELECT `orders`.*, proctime() AS ptime FROM `orders`) AS `o`
LEFT JOIN `customer`
FOR SYSTEM_TIME AS OF `o`.`ptime` AS `c`
ON `o`.`o_custkey` = `c`.`c_custkey`;

-- join key is a prefix set of dimension table primary keys.
```

```sql title="Flink SQL"
-- prefix look up join in synchronous mode.
INSERT INTO lookup_join_sink
SELECT `o`.`o_orderkey`, `o`.`o_totalprice`, `c`.`c_name`, `c`.`c_address`
FROM 
(SELECT `orders`.*, proctime() AS ptime FROM `orders`) AS `o`
LEFT JOIN `customer` /*+ OPTIONS('lookup.async' = 'false') */
FOR SYSTEM_TIME AS OF `o`.`ptime` AS `c`
ON `o`.`o_custkey` = `c`.`c_custkey`;
```

### Examples (Partitioned Table)

Continuing from the previous prefix lookup example, if our dimension table is a Fluss partitioned primary key table, as follows:

```sql title="Flink SQL"
-- primary keys are (c_custkey, c_nationkey, dt)
-- bucket key is (c_custkey)
CREATE TABLE `fluss_catalog`.`my_db`.`customer_partitioned` (
  `c_custkey` INT NOT NULL,
  `c_name` STRING NOT NULL,
  `c_address` STRING NOT NULL,
  `c_nationkey` INT NOT NULL,
  `c_phone` CHAR(15) NOT NULL,
  `c_acctbal` DECIMAL(15, 2) NOT NULL,
  `c_mktsegment` CHAR(10) NOT NULL,
  `c_comment` STRING NOT NULL,
  `dt` STRING NOT NULL,
  PRIMARY KEY (`c_custkey`, `c_nationkey`, `dt`) NOT ENFORCED
) 
PARTITIONED BY (`dt`)
WITH (
    'bucket.key' = 'c_custkey',
    'table.auto-partition.enabled' = 'true',
    'table.auto-partition.time-unit' = 'year'
);
```

To do a prefix lookup with the Fluss partitioned primary key table, the prefix lookup join key is in pattern of
`a prefix subset of primary keys (excluding partition key)` + `partition key`.
```sql title="Flink SQL"
INSERT INTO lookup_join_sink
SELECT `o`.`o_orderkey`, `o`.`o_totalprice`, `c`.`c_name`, `c`.`c_address`
FROM 
(SELECT `orders`.*, proctime() AS ptime FROM `orders`) AS `o`
LEFT JOIN `customer_partitioned`
FOR SYSTEM_TIME AS OF `o`.`ptime` AS `c`
ON `o`.`o_custkey` = `c`.`c_custkey` AND  `o`.`o_dt` = `c`.`dt`;

-- join key is a prefix set of dimension table primary keys (excluding partition key) + partition key.
```

For more details about Fluss partitioned table, see [Partitioned Tables](table-design/data-distribution/partitioning.md).

Commit message:

[docs] Add "Connector Options" page in "Engine Flink" (#520)

website/docs/engine-flink/lookups.md, after:

---
sidebar_label: Lookups
sidebar_position: 5
---

# Flink Lookup Joins
Flink lookup joins are important because they enable efficient, real-time enrichment of streaming data with reference data, a common requirement in many real-time analytics and processing scenarios.


## Lookup

### Instructions
- Use a primary key table as a dimension table, and the join condition must include all primary keys of the dimension table.
- Fluss lookup join is in asynchronous mode by default for higher throughput. You can change the mode of lookup join as synchronous mode by setting the SQL Hint `'lookup.async' = 'false'`.

### Examples
1. Create two tables.
```sql title="Flink SQL"
CREATE TABLE `fluss_catalog`.`my_db`.`orders` (
  `o_orderkey` INT NOT NULL,
  `o_custkey` INT NOT NULL,
  `o_orderstatus` CHAR(1) NOT NULL,
  `o_totalprice` DECIMAL(15, 2) NOT NULL,
  `o_orderdate` DATE NOT NULL,
  `o_orderpriority` CHAR(15) NOT NULL,
  `o_clerk` CHAR(15) NOT NULL,
  `o_shippriority` INT NOT NULL,
  `o_comment` STRING NOT NULL,
  `o_dt` STRING NOT NULL,
  PRIMARY KEY (o_orderkey) NOT ENFORCED
);
```

```sql title="Flink SQL"
CREATE TABLE `fluss_catalog`.`my_db`.`customer` (
  `c_custkey` INT NOT NULL,
  `c_name` STRING NOT NULL,
  `c_address` STRING NOT NULL,
  `c_nationkey` INT NOT NULL,
  `c_phone` CHAR(15) NOT NULL,
  `c_acctbal` DECIMAL(15, 2) NOT NULL,
  `c_mktsegment` CHAR(10) NOT NULL,
  `c_comment` STRING NOT NULL,
  PRIMARY KEY (c_custkey) NOT ENFORCED
);
```

2. Perform lookup join.
```sql title="Flink SQL"
USE CATALOG fluss_catalog;
```

```sql title="Flink SQL"
USE my_db;
```

```sql title="Flink SQL"
CREATE TEMPORARY TABLE lookup_join_sink
(
   order_key INT NOT NULL,
   order_totalprice DECIMAL(15, 2) NOT NULL,
   customer_name STRING NOT NULL,
   customer_address STRING NOT NULL
) WITH ('connector' = 'blackhole');
```

```sql title="Flink SQL"
-- look up join in asynchronous mode.
INSERT INTO lookup_join_sink
SELECT `o`.`o_orderkey`, `o`.`o_totalprice`, `c`.`c_name`, `c`.`c_address`
FROM 
(SELECT `orders`.*, proctime() AS ptime FROM `orders`) AS `o`
LEFT JOIN `customer`
FOR SYSTEM_TIME AS OF `o`.`ptime` AS `c`
ON `o`.`o_custkey` = `c`.`c_custkey`;
```

```sql title="Flink SQL"
-- look up join in synchronous mode.
INSERT INTO lookup_join_sink
SELECT `o`.`o_orderkey`, `o`.`o_totalprice`, `c`.`c_name`, `c`.`c_address`
FROM 
(SELECT `orders`.*, proctime() AS ptime FROM `orders`) AS `o`
LEFT JOIN `customer` /*+ OPTIONS('lookup.async' = 'false') */
FOR SYSTEM_TIME AS OF `o`.`ptime` AS `c`
ON `o`.`o_custkey` = `c`.`c_custkey`;
```

### Examples (Partitioned Table)

Continuing from the previous example, if our dimension table is a Fluss partitioned primary key table, as follows:

```sql title="Flink SQL"
CREATE TABLE `fluss_catalog`.`my_db`.`customer_partitioned` (
  `c_custkey` INT NOT NULL,
  `c_name` STRING NOT NULL,
  `c_address` STRING NOT NULL,
  `c_nationkey` INT NOT NULL,
  `c_phone` CHAR(15) NOT NULL,
  `c_acctbal` DECIMAL(15, 2) NOT NULL,
  `c_mktsegment` CHAR(10) NOT NULL,
  `c_comment` STRING NOT NULL,
  `dt` STRING NOT NULL,
  PRIMARY KEY (`c_custkey`, `dt`) NOT ENFORCED
) 
PARTITIONED BY (`dt`)
WITH (
    'table.auto-partition.enabled' = 'true',
    'table.auto-partition.time-unit' = 'year'
);
```

To do a lookup join with the Fluss partitioned primary key table, we need to specify the 
primary keys (including partition key) in the join condition.
```sql title="Flink SQL"
INSERT INTO lookup_join_sink
SELECT `o`.`o_orderkey`, `o`.`o_totalprice`, `c`.`c_name`, `c`.`c_address`
FROM 
(SELECT `orders`.*, proctime() AS ptime FROM `orders`) AS `o`
LEFT JOIN `customer_partitioned`
FOR SYSTEM_TIME AS OF `o`.`ptime` AS `c`
ON `o`.`o_custkey` = `c`.`c_custkey` AND  `o`.`o_dt` = `c`.`dt`;
```

For more details about Fluss partitioned table, see [Partitioned Tables](table-design/data-distribution/partitioning.md).

## Prefix Lookup

### Instructions

- Use a primary key table as a dimension table, and the join condition must a prefix subset of the primary keys of the dimension table.
- The bucket key of Fluss dimension table need to set as the join key when creating Fluss table. 
- Fluss prefix lookup join is in asynchronous mode by default for higher throughput. You can change the mode of prefix lookup join as synchronous mode by setting the SQL Hint `'lookup.async' = 'false'`.


### Examples
1. Create two tables.
```sql title="Flink SQL"
CREATE TABLE `fluss_catalog`.`my_db`.`orders` (
  `o_orderkey` INT NOT NULL,
  `o_custkey` INT NOT NULL,
  `o_orderstatus` CHAR(1) NOT NULL,
  `o_totalprice` DECIMAL(15, 2) NOT NULL,
  `o_orderdate` DATE NOT NULL,
  `o_orderpriority` CHAR(15) NOT NULL,
  `o_clerk` CHAR(15) NOT NULL,
  `o_shippriority` INT NOT NULL,
  `o_comment` STRING NOT NULL,
  `o_dt` STRING NOT NULL,
  PRIMARY KEY (o_orderkey) NOT ENFORCED
);
```

```sql title="Flink SQL"
-- primary keys are (c_custkey, c_nationkey)
-- bucket key is (c_custkey)
CREATE TABLE `fluss_catalog`.`my_db`.`customer` (
  `c_custkey` INT NOT NULL,
  `c_name` STRING NOT NULL,
  `c_address` STRING NOT NULL,
  `c_nationkey` INT NOT NULL,
  `c_phone` CHAR(15) NOT NULL,
  `c_acctbal` DECIMAL(15, 2) NOT NULL,
  `c_mktsegment` CHAR(10) NOT NULL,
  `c_comment` STRING NOT NULL,
  PRIMARY KEY (`c_custkey`, `c_nationkey`) NOT ENFORCED
) WITH (
  'bucket.key' = 'c_custkey' 
);
```

2. Perform prefix lookup.
```sql title="Flink SQL"
USE CATALOG fluss_catalog;
```

```sql title="Flink SQL"
USE my_db;
```

```sql title="Flink SQL"
CREATE TEMPORARY TABLE lookup_join_sink
(
   order_key INT NOT NULL,
   order_totalprice DECIMAL(15, 2) NOT NULL,
   customer_name STRING NOT NULL,
   customer_address STRING NOT NULL
) WITH ('connector' = 'blackhole');
```

```sql title="Flink SQL"
-- prefix look up join in asynchronous mode.
INSERT INTO lookup_join_sink
SELECT `o`.`o_orderkey`, `o`.`o_totalprice`, `c`.`c_name`, `c`.`c_address`
FROM 
(SELECT `orders`.*, proctime() AS ptime FROM `orders`) AS `o`
LEFT JOIN `customer`
FOR SYSTEM_TIME AS OF `o`.`ptime` AS `c`
ON `o`.`o_custkey` = `c`.`c_custkey`;

-- join key is a prefix set of dimension table primary keys.
```

```sql title="Flink SQL"
-- prefix look up join in synchronous mode.
INSERT INTO lookup_join_sink
SELECT `o`.`o_orderkey`, `o`.`o_totalprice`, `c`.`c_name`, `c`.`c_address`
FROM 
(SELECT `orders`.*, proctime() AS ptime FROM `orders`) AS `o`
LEFT JOIN `customer` /*+ OPTIONS('lookup.async' = 'false') */
FOR SYSTEM_TIME AS OF `o`.`ptime` AS `c`
ON `o`.`o_custkey` = `c`.`c_custkey`;
```

### Examples (Partitioned Table)

Continuing from the previous prefix lookup example, if our dimension table is a Fluss partitioned primary key table, as follows:

```sql title="Flink SQL"
-- primary keys are (c_custkey, c_nationkey, dt)
-- bucket key is (c_custkey)
CREATE TABLE `fluss_catalog`.`my_db`.`customer_partitioned` (
  `c_custkey` INT NOT NULL,
  `c_name` STRING NOT NULL,
  `c_address` STRING NOT NULL,
  `c_nationkey` INT NOT NULL,
  `c_phone` CHAR(15) NOT NULL,
  `c_acctbal` DECIMAL(15, 2) NOT NULL,
  `c_mktsegment` CHAR(10) NOT NULL,
  `c_comment` STRING NOT NULL,
  `dt` STRING NOT NULL,
  PRIMARY KEY (`c_custkey`, `c_nationkey`, `dt`) NOT ENFORCED
) 
PARTITIONED BY (`dt`)
WITH (
    'bucket.key' = 'c_custkey',
    'table.auto-partition.enabled' = 'true',
    'table.auto-partition.time-unit' = 'year'
);
```

To do a prefix lookup with the Fluss partitioned primary key table, the prefix lookup join key is in pattern of
`a prefix subset of primary keys (excluding partition key)` + `partition key`.
```sql title="Flink SQL"
INSERT INTO lookup_join_sink
SELECT `o`.`o_orderkey`, `o`.`o_totalprice`, `c`.`c_name`, `c`.`c_address`
FROM 
(SELECT `orders`.*, proctime() AS ptime FROM `orders`) AS `o`
LEFT JOIN `customer_partitioned`
FOR SYSTEM_TIME AS OF `o`.`ptime` AS `c`
ON `o`.`o_custkey` = `c`.`c_custkey` AND  `o`.`o_dt` = `c`.`dt`;

-- join key is a prefix set of dimension table primary keys (excluding partition key) + partition key.
```

For more details about Fluss partitioned table, see [Partitioned Tables](table-design/data-distribution/partitioning.md).

## Lookup Options

Fluss lookup join supports various configuration options. For more details, please refer to the [Connector Options](engine-flink/options.md#lookup-options) page.
